overall in this film about to search about something
Amazing performance by the ensemble. 
Horrifying as it is based on true events!
Spotlight is a movie that I didn't think I would want to watch more than once because of it's subject matter but I can't help myself with Tom McCarthy's masterpiece. It does what The Post should have done, it keeps the integrity of the story and keeps you locked in for the full 2hr run time. The brilliant ensemble cast doesn't try to out do one another but rather leans on the material and lets the story speak for itself.
9.5/10, well acted and riveting
Spotlight was ok, but devoid of any tension, ambiguity, depth, complexity. We all know the story---the reality---that 90 priests molested and/or had inappropriate sexual interactions with teen and preteens, and that the Catholic Church in Boston and elsewhere covered it up. But this take on that story is about how a principled Jewish editor in chief (played by an apparently bored Liev Schreiber) arrives at the Boston Globe and is the only one who can see injustice and responsible journalism with any clarity, and how it was his moral backbone and intellectual prowess that enabled taking down the Catholic Church when none had dared or been able to do so before--and how many had resisted and/or actively fought against the real story to come out. The acting is uniformly good--it should be; it's a stellar cast--but the whole thing is turned down so low, so drably, so one dimensionally, it is very hard to keep watching and listening to the same lectures over and over (and over and over) for over 2 hours.  There needed to be a reality check--or a devil's advocate--or some other POV beyond the obvious one that is hammered without deviation from the following: molesting children is evil, Catholic priests molested children, the Catholic Church is all over the world, therefore unspeakable evils have unfolded to unfathomable numbers of kids worldwide thanks to the Catholic Church, which must be stopped--and thank goodness for the 100% good, brave, intellectually clean and clear "outsiders" who step forward valiantly to put a stop to evils like Catholicism. Little shortcuts like "Gasp!!! Lawyers who approached the Catholic Church with allegations of abuse for many years did not officially file lawsuits in court?!! Nor did they go to the media?!!! There are nondisclosure agreements with the people who settled with the church---egad!!" Doesn't take into account that 90% of lawsuits against corporations, organizations, universities, and individuals are treated precisely that way. Is it to "cover up what happened," as a conspiracy?  Not necessarily---that is the way that legal action often/usually unfolds--out of court settlements, "mediation," arbitration. And almost always as part of those settlements is a non-disclosure agreement.  It is not unusual--the way this film makes it out to be--that the Catholic Church did something bizarrely untoward each time they were approached with a claim, for their attorneys to work with the plaintiff's attorneys and not to go to the media with it. Not to say the Catholic Church handled--or handles---such things appropriately. But many times in Spotlight actions like the preceding example of settling out of court is conflated with corruption, nefariousness, conspiracy. The Church may be and have been corrupt and nefarious--and even perpetuated conspiracy--but why not climb a bit farther inside it and show how the very people thinking they were doing the right thing were completely wrong-minded about it? THAT in itself is far more arresting and affecting than watching a painfully out of tune children's choir warbe "Silent Night" in a shadowy church, watched over by a priest, while Mark Ruffalo stands in the unwatched darkness, a single tear dribbling down his cheek. Heavy-handed and unnuanced missed opportunity. For an exponentially more effective film on this topic, see "Doubt." That will haunt you. Spotlight, in contrast, will most likely sort of bore you (which you'll then have to deny since it's such a dire topic).
Thrilling! One of my favorite movie of all time.
Spotlight takes on the task its subjects brought to life the decade prior with grace pose and a rawness that is gripping and emotionally moving.
Good solid writing, acting, directing, and the film took you into newsrooms and you meet reporters that are becoming too few in this country.
Absolutely brilliant from start to finish.
A story everyone should watch, one of the most important films of the decade.
Taking the #1 spot in the list for my favorite films of the decade, this Best Picture winning film shines a light on the extraordinary investigative journalists who revealed one of the most disturbing true secrets that the church had been hiding for many years.

The pinnacle of Investigative Journalist filmmaking

SYNOPSIS:
In 2001, the investigative journalist team, known as "Spotlight", for the Boston Globe gets tasked with digging deep into a potential scandal of the American Church keeping secrets and hiding child molesting priests. Though at first believed to be just a couple "bad apples", the further the team researched, the more they begin to realize that this unimaginable secret is actually being done on a much grander scale.

DIRECTION:
Tom McCarthy really knocks this one out of the park. Every angle is a song and every angle is keeping the right amount of pace while tracking every bit of body language coming off of the phenomenal performances. I've been reviewing many films that aren't asked for an extreme amount of effort on behalf of the directing and I'm compelled to say the same about this film. Despite feeling this way, McCarthy shoots this film in a very particular way where it's hard for me to explain. He is always capturing the right frame at the right moment and whether it's a wide, a medium or a close-up it is particular to a point of perfection. I couldn't imagine the editing nor the direction being any different. I don't want it to be any different. The extreme organization of this film is exquisite and regardless if you're familiar with the true story you're still very much discovering every bit of information along with them. Although I can think of several films of the sort, the only other film I can really compare the meticulous direction with is that of David Fincher's "Zodiac" (2007). 

WRITING:
Every element of this film is damn near flawless for me and the same goes for the writing. As I mentioned in my review of Dark Waters (an also similar film including Mark Ruffalo), when writing a script that is inspired or completely based on true events, you can spot the films that truly do their research. Now, I don't know just how accurate this film is to all of the dialogue that was actually said nor do I know what level of investigation these journalists took on, but anyone can see that this film really dug as deep as it could. A story like this could be scary to tell, especially when it's dealing with an enormous entity like the American Church and so I give the writing and anyone participating in this film in general all of the props in the world.

ACTING:
I'm just going to name all of the noteworthy actors: Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liv Schreiber, Brian D'Arcy James, John Slattery, Billy Crudup, Stanley Tucci and Mark Ruffalo. Now there are others who played very small roles who were all spectacular, but for this film I really want to narrow this SPECTACULAR lineup to Stanley Tucci and Mark Ruffalo. Stanley Tucci plays one of the most incredible supporting roles to date. He was so integral to the story and every line of dialogue that came out of his mouth felt so true that I nearly forgot he is an actor and I know that's the job and that's how it's supposed to be, but in every scene that he was in I nearly felt I was watching a straight documentary with the real lawyer. He was unbelievable. Moving on we get to Mark Ruffalo. Without having seen all of his films, I can say without a doubt this is the best performance he has every given. It's one of the greatest performances given period. One could argue the best of the decade. Maybe this story is so close to his heart or maybe he just sparked unreal-like empathy, but I felt as though this story affected him to his very core. The emotion was so raw that the whole movie I wanted this story to get out just so I could see himself get closure. I wouldn't be surprised at all that even though Mr. Hulk has smashed through several Marvel films that this was his most emotionally and mentally draining performance he's every had.

CONCLUSION:
All in all, this film goes down as possibly one of my top 10 favorite films of all time. To take a story, entirely filled with dialogue and to keep my interest as much as a Domino's Chocolate Lava Cake, is speaking to significant heights. I can watch this film daily and still be sucked in just as much as the first viewing and the heart wrenching scene between Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo. Simply Impeccable. This is a recommend to absolutely everyone. I am a man of faith and for me to still enjoy this film as much as it does, I believe speak volumes.
Powerful and absolutely perfect storytelling. You won't forget the final 40 minutes of Spotlight.
One of the best true story-telling movies.
Mark Ruffalo shows why he's a mediocre actor at best 
An important film...it treads its difficult subject matter with respect and dignity.
The best newsroom procedural i have ever seen. These people set aside their personal lives to report a story that changed the world. Stopped evil in the name of good. The way they portrayed the new Jewish editor from Florida was so understated. So real. What a great movie!
This movie is just mindblowing for me, not just the story but the performance from the casts too, Michael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Stanley Tucci played a big part that makes this movie so meaningful for me. And don't forget there's Brian d'Arcy, Liev Schreiber, and John Slattery that has a scene that steal the show for me, their role maybe not that big but believe me, every one of them is just so good in this movie. A must see film with amazing performance from everyone since The Departed. 5/5
What they did with the story was close to brilliant. Although there was not too much happening on screen, they managed to create a dense and believable atmosphere.
A story worth watching! Great!
good cast and a great story based on real life story in Boston about the Catholic church
Following in the footsteps of other journalistic drama greats like "All The President's Men" and "The Insider" before it, this Best Picture winner takes an incredibly engrossing story of investigative passion and layers a thick coating of moral intrigue and subtle, yet effective emotionality on top of it. Sure, "Spotlight" may lack the directorial panache and flair that other, admittedly more complete films would possess, but I'll be damned if the subject matter at hand doesn't elevate everything in play. I don't need this to be flashy or expressive. The message and story at hand do it all for me. And what a story it is, scripted beautifully by Josh Singer and director Tom McCarthy, featuring stellar dialogue, brilliantly vibrant scene dynamics, and -- again -- a call to action that'll knock you on your back. "Spotlight" shocked me in nearly every way imaginable. Not only is it a well-deserved candidate for the best movie of 2015, it's a well-deserved candidate for being one of the best movies of its kind.
Great casting though I think that McAdams could've done a better job 
Really well done. Amazing so many people would look the other way. 
As I've watched an ever-increasing number of films across a variety of genres, I've come to the conclusion that the investigative drama is one of my favorite genres. My favorite movies in this genre are those which are simultaneously low key and suspenseful. Films such as The Third Murder, Rear Window, and The Conversation maintain high levels of tension with a minimum of onscreen violence, achieving the type of audience engagement I'd associate with a high body count thriller with a more measured, intellectual tone. Spotlight is, undoubtedly, one of the best films of the genre I've ever seen. Following the titular "Spotlight" team from The Boston Globe as they investigate what could be the biggest story of their career, a child abuse scandal involving the Catholic Church, the film is extremely tense, yet simultaneously low key, creating an extremely engaging drama without sacrificing the air of authenticity demanded by an adaptation of a true story.

The movie features one of the strongest ensemble casts I have ever seen, to the point that pointing out standouts is very hard because of the inspired performances all around. In a clever bit of directing, these characters are frequently towered over by edifices symbolizing the very organization the team is investigating as they exchange dialogue. This dialogue is engaging not just because of the acting prowess on display, but also because movie also has an excellent script. I particularly like the use of subtext and doublespeak in the film. While the film does not convey as many layers of meaning in a single sentence as Tokyo Story, which I have praised for similar reasons, it acknowledges that it is often counterproductive for a reporter to get accusatory and openly angry with interviewees and that, for the person on the other end of the notepad, threats should not be made openly and publicly, especially towards someone in the position to publish those threats. These are aspects of the profession commonly ignored by films featuring reporters.

I suspect some people will find the film to be anti-religious. I didn't get that impression. Spotlight certainly does not portray the Catholic Church as an institution in a positive manner, but it does not attack its God directly, only the mortals ostensibly in God's service. Throughout the film, the "Spotlight" team conduct repeated telephone interviews with a former Catholic priest who became a critic of the Church due to their handling of sexual abuse claims. He has little positive to say about the people running the church, but still considers himself a Catholic. Even if we assume the existence of an infallible god, humans, those who claim to be servants of that deity may still commit immoral actions, and those acts should not be excused because the evildoer is a priest. Spotlight takes no definite stance on religion, only on those who use it to conceal their own evil acts.

This movie was flat, boring, and seemed just clinical and surgical in the way it dealt with such a tragic and controversial topic. I can't believe such a careless and boring snooze-fest won best picture. 
An Academy Award winner for Best Picture and an excellent film that gives one a good idea of the code of silence and the vastness of the problem of sexual abuse of children by priests on a scale most of us could never imagine. Any respect I had for the Catholic Church  and its hierarchy is gone, leaving in its place nothing but disgust that the Church protected such horrendous monsters, not as any forgiveness due to sinners who preyed on the most vulnerable that the Church should have protected at all costs, but to salve it's own pride--one of the 7 Deadly Sins! What overwhelming hypocrisy, the worst a religious group could ever commit! because it preyed on children and ruined all of their young lives in the very worst criminal way! There is no excuse and never could be!
Very good movie, try to detail the facts but in some cases make excessive use of the resource of put crying people in the screen but in general is a spectacular movie.
Spotlight is one of the most important films of my lifetime. The story is so significant, and Spotlight honors it in a near-perfect way.
The most beloved films about journalists, All the President's Men (1976) and Cry Freedom (1987) portray them almost like action heroes as they intelligently interrogate shadowy figures whilst bonding with their partner or righteously campaign for the civil rights of a racially oppressed group. Spotlight avoids all of this portraying it's heroes as able and worthy in their jobs as they face a difficult task but they always feel very grounded and big, teary-eyed speeches about "integrity" and "truth" are never brought out to sell the idea that journalism is important, we already understand. Although I didn't love the film it tells a story about an important subject matter with grace and intelligence not seen in many ï¿ 1/2 1/2 1/2~based on a true story' Best Picture winners.

The ï¿ 1/2 1/2 1/2~Spotlight' team work at the Boston Herald on big exposes as they spend months, sometimes years on single stories as they compile irrefutable evidence to back up their claims. The enemy that they face this time is the Catholic Church as they block them at every turn in their attempt to access sealed information about covered up child abuse within the Boston diocese. Walter Robinson, Michael Keaton, Michael Rezendes, Mark Ruffalo, Sacha Pfeiffer and Rachel McAdams band together in their intrepid investigation of the case and discover just how deep the corruption goes whilst collecting heartrending testimonies from victims.

The most affecting moments in the film are of course the confessions from the mostly adult victims of sexual abuse as they describe how they and those around them were manipulated into beginning sexual relationships with priests. The attempts that they made to have these dangerous figures removed from positions of power failed as the system is set up to prevent their stories from getting out. The victims are played well by unknown actors as the emotions are clear upon their faces but there are no dramatic outbursts or sudden revelations that cause them to cry out in pain and terror. No, we get hard, simple truths about the endless terrors of child sexual abuse as we witness that one prominent victim had at some point fallen victim to a cocaine habit. This has more emotional resonance than any scene from The Accused (1988) where Jodie Foster cries out due to her trauma. These characters stay with us and it is their pain that motivates both the journalists and the audience in revealing this abuse to the public and dethroning these villainous abusers.

The reporting is also seen to come not from eureka moments or a natural talent for composing alliterative sentences but from honest work. We see journalists plugging away at all hours, doing the dull work of filling in spreadsheets and writing comprehensive notes during long interviews. We also get dramatic scenes of Keaton confronting his close high school friend who may be closely connected to the cover up but these are brief and have extra impact when considering that this sort of conduct does not occur often. Seeing these people work away at all hours like a respectable, normal human being endears these characters to us and makes their victory all the more deserved as we have seen the work that he have put into it.

The performances of Stanley Tucci and Billy Crudup in supporting roles as a cantankerous but honorable lawyer and a slick but also surprisingly well-meaning lawyer respectively are standouts. The entire cast is solid and their understated, workmanlike performances fit the tone of the film as a whole as if Glenn Close had been cast in McAdams' role, although she is brilliant, she wouldn't have jelled with the rest of the film. 

The only criticisms that I would have of the film is that it didn't ever convince me that it was more than just very good. Holding the Best Picture distinction meant that I had high expectations for the film and I never felt as though this was one of the greatest films of the decade or even the year. The cinematography also doesn't help as the film has a washed out color palette and the scenery never looks particularly special. I just wanted more in many places and I didn't get it therefore I can't call it a perfect film but it's definitely the best of the films nominated for Best Picture in 2015.
Spotlight is a movie about a team inside The Boston Globe, called Spotlight. They investigate stories and work confidential. When a new editor start the work for the Globe, Spotlight is made to investigate the Geoghan case, which is about a priest that molested children. Once Spotlight starts working on the case they find out about more and more priests who did the same thing.

I was blown away by how great the actors were. Mark Ruffelo and Liev Schreiber stood out for me. They really became Mike Rezendes (Mark's character) and Marty Baron (Liev's character) which I find very fascinating. The way they talk, the way their faces move, it's truly amazing. Michael Keaton as Walter Robinson aka Robby is so good as well (what's new). I feel like all the roles Rachel McAdams plays are kind of the same (she played Sacha Pfeiffer in this one), but she was as marvelous as ever. It wasn't only the main character though. Even the actors with smaller roles were so good. I really enjoyed the acting in Spotlight, which obviously makes the movie even better.

I'm so happy this move got oscars because it really deserves it. The movie is a biography and I love watching films like these because most of the time I didn't even know about the story. As I said before, the actors where great, it's an interesting story and I highly enjoyed it.
Watched Spotlight. Wonderful film. The acting was incredible and I loved everyones performance, and it didn't unrealistically embellish anything. Really down to earth. My one gripe is that in its attempts to be realistic it was almost TOO realistic. I dont think there was even one light hearted moment or a second of laughter in the film. In reality, people do laugh or stutter or trip or get awkward for a second or something. Believe me, the actors are so realistic and consumed by their roles unlike anything I've ever seen. However I'm a guy who needs a little stimulation; the monotony made me a tad drowsy. One moment of explicit comedy or humanness would've gone a long way. Nonetheless, the ending scene absolved almost everything. You realize you've watched the tedious-but-epic quest that exposed a scandal we all know so much about. And, of course, you get that classic theme of good decisively triumphing over evil and feel good walking away from it. 

I love how Mark Ruffalo is so weird with his facial expressions but still has such a normal conversation style. I also like that he kinda has this Type A constantly-worried face that makes him seem like a jerk but still all he cares about is doing the right thing. I could chill with him for a bit, but I feel like I would just be making that face the whole time too because he would just be constantly ranting about something he's frustrated with. Like just knowing that right now Mark Ruffalo is out there worrying about something is stressing me out.
One of the most rewarding slow burners of the past century. Spotlight heavily utilizes its real life story to perfection, as it addressed the reveal of a shocking secret kept under wrap for years. Tom McCarthy did a phenomenal job directing the picture, orchestrating a conclusion we've been anxiously waiting for. The performances were also terrific, just like its Oscar-worthy screenplay. Its a very human movie that everyone could get to know about and see. It deserves its critical acclaim and this 5 star rating.
What a crackling film about the incredible work investigative journalists do. very powerful 
Make you concious of the reality which happens around us.
Spotlight is carried by an excellent representation of the not so distant past, skilled acting by its leads, and pure outrage.
A very sad but rue film important for all to see and amazingly impactful
Spotlight, the real life based drama that take over the world on the 2015, interesting from the beginning to the end, at the end of the movie you either feel indignation or fully accomplished with the main characters.

One of the strongest parts of this film is the performance of the actors, we have some top talented actors like Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton, but this movie gave us more. I would like to divide the actors and their performances in 3 categories, because they are so different from each other; the first category are the main characters, the ones who wants to find out the truth, they make you believe that they are making the work of their lives to just for the sake of justice, the second group are the victims, the damaged, even before they told you they story you can tell how damaged they are by her personalities and how they act; the last group are the bad people, the ones who either caused damage or wanted to cover it, you can tell they are covering something from the first time you see them interact with the main characters, they are so hateful. 

The soundtrack is almost if it wasnï¿ 1/2 1/2(TM)t there, but it isnï¿ 1/2 1/2(TM)t necessarily something bad, the whole movie has a really serious mood, its necessary for the plot to make it the more realistic as possible, that includes the ambientation, all the 2nd and 3rd act its based on its majority on an office, everything is grey, boring, how it is supposed to be in the real world, itï¿ 1/2 1/2(TM)s a good ambientation because it really reflects what it was like on the real world.  

My only concern with this movie, its at the end of the 2nd act, at that point, we area so full of characters and side stories that it becomes really hard to keep it up with the whole plot for 2 hours, I feeled the need to constantly rewinding it back to remind me who they were talking about or what specific situation they were referring to.
One of the best films of the last two decades. Truly engrossing and Dean's with it's themes appropriately.
No 2015 movie left me more choked up or rapt with admiration than Tom McCarthy's ode to old-school investigative reporting. Kudos to the year's best acting ensemble: Michael Keaton, Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery and Brian d'Arcy James. At The Boston Globe in 2002, the Spotlight team nailed the Catholic Church for its legacy of child abuse and cover-ups. And the movie sets a new gold standard for 21st-century cinema about journalism. This star studded cast created such suspension and intrigue throughout this wildly entertaining film that I just did not want it to end. It is no surprise this film is a serious Oscar contender. 
Ã-nemli bir konuyu iÅleyen bir film
Derin bir konusu var
A movie based on a true story that tells the truth story about pedophilia by hands of priests of Catholic Church on the city of Boston. With a group of reporters who investigated this case for later being public to the people. Great acting, great adapted screenplay and just wow, this film is very strong in all aspects. This movie earned the Best Picture on the Oscars.
Filme perfeito contando a histÃ³ria real.
It is a phenomenal movie. The movie was able to give justice to the story of the reporters who were behind the Pulitzer winner report that put light on the molestation of children by the hands of the priest and high dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Churches. Superb acting!!!?
Riveting and superbly acted and directed. Amazing cast. Celebrates the work of investigational journalism. One of the best movies in many years
thorough, good acting, but too dialoguey and a bit dry. it was hard to get a grasp of the multitude of characters that kept popping in and out. but perhaps that’s an accurate show of the journalism world
Spotlight is so tightly written, tightly edited, tightly acted - like, not only is it subtle but TIGHT AF.

Read full review: jane-han.com/blog/2018/2/16/film-review-spotlight-2015
Informative and compelling at times, yet hardly deserving of the two Academy Awards it garnered; SPOTLIGHT seats Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo [Hulk] at the helm, to pragmatically delineate the investigative reporting that exposed Bostonâ(TM)s Catholic Archdiocese Sex Abuse Scandal. Itâ(TM)s no more or less than what anyone would expect, with a few inquisitive surprises to keep the ball rolling. The film is worth seeing once for its academic dramatization value, but thatâ(TM)s about it.
Very important. Everyone should see this.
I was a lucky man because i saw this movie using boxxy software just after it was released
Many films have an engrossing story but fall prey to using tricks or gimmicks to force a point or emotion, Spotlight is a strong example of just letting the story do the talking
We have progressed far enough now that we can easily look back at the turn of the millennium with a sense of wonder, reflection and some fear. The clock had barely clicked over into a new century when we found ourselves in a state of panic and paranoia; first Y2K, then a Presidential election that we couldn't resolve, then the horror of 9/11, then accidents, disasters, war, terrorism, scandals, emergencies and through it all the country suddenly found itself unsure what to make of itself anymore. It all seemed too much for such a short time. It seemed that the atonement for lot of old sins were finally being demanded.

Few bombshells hit quite as hard as the one that went off on the morning of January 6, 2002 when The Boston Globe began running a series of a stories about the permissiveness of The Catholic Church when several priests were accused of systematically molesting young boys. The Globe revealed that such a thing was hidden by The Church whose response was to quietly transfer the guilty to other parishes. There were deals with victims, legal statutes, and worst of all, local Catholics so fearful of taking on the church that they were willing to keep quiet about it. Within less than a year, Cardinal Bernard Law, the Archbishop of Boston resigned a disgrace - yet that didn't stop Pope John Paul II from giving him a position in Rome. One man in the film puts it bluntly: "The Church thinks in centuries."

Spotlight is not about abuse, nor is it about the machinations of the priests themselves - what they did was horrible enough. The movie is an intelligent examination of the investigation to break down the ancient walls that kept the story from becoming front page news. There are no priests seen in this movie and what they did is mercifully not seen in flashback. We hear about their actions through the words of the victims, about how such abuse breaks not only self-esteem but also breaks one down spiritually. We hear very clearly that some of those who were abused found solace with the needle, or the bottle. They were lucky because the rest resorted to suicide. These stories bring an urgency to the investigation.

The horrible stories come from the words of the victims, but we the viewer are kept out of the walls of the church. Spotlight is instead an exhilarating old-fashioned newspaper movie in the mold of All the President's Men, Zodiac and Absence of Malice that follows a team of Boston Globe journalists called Spotlight as they begin to dig under the allegations that some seem determined to keep under wraps. The editor of The Spotlight Team is Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) who oversees a team of three reporters; fair-minded Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams); work-a-holic Michael Rendez (Mark Ruffalo); and combative Matty Caroll (Brian d'Arcy James). All four of these reporters are Boston locals, all are Catholics, but all admit that they have fallen away from the church. When the paper gets a new editor, a soft-spoken Jewish Floridian named Marty Baron (Live Schreiber), he begins to question why the story isn't being followed up. Why did the Globe receive information on these priests and then bury it in the Metro section? Why were those stories not followed up?

The movie follows their investigation as they begin with the case of John J. Geoghan, who is alleged to have molested many children over a long period of time. But that case opens another case and then another and then another until the case of one man has become the case of many men who committed an atrocity and then were protected by The Church. What did those in power know? What do those in power know? How many were there? How far back does it go?  How high up does it go?

We feel the David and Goliath struggle here but director Thomas McCarthy doesn't force anything, yet keeps the story at a breathtaking pace. He lets the information be the star as we become so engrossed in their investigation that we wait for the moment when something will break. The tension here is at the level of a great thriller, especially when the story's forward momentum is interrupted by a certain national event that delayed The Globe's progress by for four months. Plus, watching these reporters hitting the streets, questioning witnesses, tussling with lawyers over documents, and flipping through file cabinets we are aware that their kind of journalistic leg work is soon to end. Long form journalism still exists but not at this level at a time when true journalism has to fight for space with the superficiality that is sweeping it right into the dustbins of history. To watch Spotlight is to watch history in action, not just in busting open the long-delayed stories of molestation in the Catholic Church, but in the manner in which it is done. This is one of the best, and most important, films of the year.
Loved it! Important film that brought to light to a wider audience the abuse crisis' details and exposure. Good acting also.
Filmone! Come già avrò scritto, amo questo genere di film basati su fatti realmente accaduti, perché insegnano anche qualcosa di effettivamente accaduto che prima invece non conoscevi. Racconta del caso di alcuni giornalisti e redattori che portano alla luce il marciume e la corruzione all'interno della chiesa. Il cast è spettacolare, quello delle grandi occasioni; tutti bravissimi, in particolare Keaton, Ruffalo e la McAdams. Essendo scritto come Dio comanda, il film non annoia neanche per un momento, anche grazie al fatto che ci si immerge sempre di più nella storia, quasi come se si lavorasse con quei giornalisti. Girato benissimo da Tom McCarthy, ha vinto l'Oscar al miglior film e penso che la cosa sia meritatissima. Da vedere, bellissimo.
This was an incredibly well made and well acted movie about the horrifying true story of  child  abuse in the Catholic Church. The movie did an incredible job  showing the Boston Globe's efforts in handling the story the right way. One of the best dramas/bio-pics  I've seen in a long time
What a film this is, essentially 90% of the plot boils down to journalists having meetings and doing research yet it's so well put together you're completely gripped from the first frame.  Everything in this film works, the performance across the board are excellent, the direction, the soundtrack, all perfect.  Actors you've seen in other films and never even left a mark all get it pitch perfect here.  I haven't seen another McCarthy film but I'll rectify that because this is first class film-making it really is.  The story is sickening and heartbreaking in equal measure, no-one gets out of this film without being examined thoroughly, it's a triumph.
2018-11-17 I can't believe that it actually happened which is disgusting. Great movie that I would like to watch it again. However, I don't really understand the relationship between a lawsuit and press.
A very important story, however I feel like the movie relies too much on hoping that the audience will be invested because of the real life story. The film overall doesn’t do enough to take it to the next level... 
Delicately made and intriguing.
¿Casos de pederastia al interior de la iglesia católica? Nada más actual y estremecedor, y en esta cinta, basada en una investigación real de un connotado periódico bostoniano, develan una realidad nada favorecedora para una de las instituciones religiosas más importantes del mundo.
fascinating story presented in a genius way
Well acted but little dramatic interest.
I cant even imagine how hard it is to create a movie revolving around this topic without beening condescending and somehow they did it. Spotlight is gray and realistic depiction of jurnalist work, that was created in such a way that it keeps you captiveted from beggining to the very end.
What? They can still tell a decent story in a good old fashioned way? I thought all movies today have at least 4 superheroes and go "crash, boom, bang"!
This movie touches very sensitive problem. Very well directed, without irrational plot twists, seems like basing on facts only, without unnecessary additives. Calm but keeping in suspense in the same time. I don't know if it's enough for Academy Award but it's worth to see very good performance of Liev Schrieber and Mark Rufallo. When Schrieber has a supporting role, Rufallo's play is something incredible - the way he talks, the way he moves - it's great when you completely forget about the actor and you see only the character he plays.
A stellar cast at the top of there game in a exceptional film based on true events. Not a easy topic to cover but handled brilliantly by the writer and directed to perfection  by tom mccarthy. True stories seem to be getting more popular with Hollywood now but if there as good as this, please keep them coming
Really nice film. Eye opening story. Really arranged well and Mark just played it nicely. Well done
A truly impactful film that highlights the true, unbelievable story of the Catholic church. It's hard to review this as a piece of entertainment but each of the actors are fantastic and the story is told in a respectful and entertaining manor.
Incredible, moving story. Mediocre film direction; a slew of poor choices supported by intriguing content to hide it. Atrocious performance by Mark Ruffalo, worthy of a Razzie. There are enough onscreen detractors that this is not worth a Best Picture as it is Best Screenplay. Truly, Spotlight needed a spotlight, and this film is it. Regardless of the filmmaking quality, I am happy to see this story told, serving as further protection to the many unheard victims.
No wonder this movie won the Academy award for Best Picture, this film is fascinating. The fact that it's based on a true shocking story makes the film even more authentic and captivating, without forgetting great acting from the whole cast, especially Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. It's a daring piece of work, and the build-up to discovering and publishing the true cases of pedophilia by Catholic priests is the most interesting part. It's an overall dramatic historical movie and one of the best I've seen for sure. Recommended !!
Tight, fast paced story telling and the best cast performance of the year; Spotlight tells the story of the investigative team at the Boston Globe and how they pulled the wool off and exposed one of the most egregious and gruesome conspiracies ever perpetrated. Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber were standouts. Both played roles that were against type, and made choices that absolutely paid off. I was most impressed with director Thomas McCarthy never using a specific priest or member of the clergy to carry the weight of antagonist, but rather playing off the idea that all of society was responsible by either not believing what they were being told, or just not wanting to believe it. The journalists who are investigating this story aren't made out to be heroes either. The movie played out exactly as I expect it probably played out in real life. It was that subtle unease and realism that chilled my bones and made a lasting impression.
Religion is, and always has been, the problem. The cancer of the world.
No doubt it is the masterpiece of McCarthy's career. I will wait anxiously for his new vision of a world quite deteriorated by human mediocrity, reported in facts without leaving it vague, in addition to including a dramaturgy arranged in an impeccable script.
One of the best dramas, not just of the year, but of all time. A masterpiece.
Spotlight's cast brings life to wooden characters, though the film's true triumph is its solid subtlety.
Just wow. Captivating. Disturbing. Enlightening!
The obvious parallel is All the President's Men, and both films do a great job of building momentum. Once it gets going, it's like a snowball rolling downhill. You really need to pay attention to each scene to figure out who has uncovered what about whom. This isn't quite as gripping as ATPM, but it's very well made. Stanley Tucci stands out for me among the supporting cast. He's such a good actor. It tells an important story, and one that as a Catholic I am certainly disturbed by. It's not the most emotionally moving film, but it's well made and deserved its Best Picture Oscar.
Spotlight is one of the best movies of ever made about journalism. It's realistic, greedy, it makes you feel exactly what it's like to be a journalist. The acting in spotlight is all top-notch. Oscar worthy performance all around. The story is interesting and the dialogue is top notch. The movie is a slow burn for the most part which make a few scenes drag on but otherwise it's a great film and well worth watching.
In an era when free press is society's favorite punching bag, Spotlight becomes a required watching for those who are either completely clueless or have completely lost faith on journalists and their role as rigorous and uncompromised purveyors of truth, despite the difficult consequences.
The sheer amount of detail and research is staggering!

Spotlight (2015) is primarily a piece about investigative journalism that shines because it does not over-sensationalize the journalistic process or the people that write the news. Spotlight focuses on the hard facts and the means by which the news acquires these studies, stories, and profiles. The Spotlight team did a tremendous service to society, and the film Spotlight is a brilliant and engaging testament to excellence in journalism.

Tom McCarthy's film is a crescendo of information, scandal, cover-up, and intrigue into the world of Catholic priests molesting and raping young children. Spotlight puts the investigative team and the priest's victims on the forefront of the fight as well as the lawyers that bravely fought the good fight while no one believed them. The sheer volume of evidence, detail, and research that went into these investigations, cases, and the film Spotlight is staggering to say the least. I was very impressed by the director's sleek presentation, but more so the massive amount of care that went into Spotlight. Spotlight will engage, entertain, and horrify you increasingly as the film goes on, but it is well worth watching.

I have to hand it to whoever cast Spotlight. This film is crammed full of brilliant actors giving it their all. Michael Keaton is phenomenal as the head of Spotlight, trying to find the truth and reckoning with his past. Rachel McAdams is incredible and captivating interviewing numerous victims and their powerful testimonies. Mark Ruffalo is impressive for his Bostonian accent and tireless persistent portrayal of a journalist that had to interview sources and unseal documentation of the cover-up. Lastly, Stanley Tucci is sympathetic and endearing as a lawyer that worked ceaselessly to represent and defend the young victims of these pedophile priests, while he simultaneously worked to unseal the documents that broke the Spotlight story with hard evidence and accounts. I really enjoyed the cast of Spotlight all delivering substantial and subtle performances for Spotlight.

In short, Spotlight very well may be one of the most important and impactful films ever made as we constantly hear about more scandals and pedophiles coming from and within The Catholic Church.
Spotlight provides a modern take on the typical story behind investigative reporters uncovering a large, unsettling scandal with it's matter-of-fact screenplay and powerhouse cast that lends itself to a more genuine experience. However, with that in mind, this approach unfortunately can leave the viewer apathetic to what emotional moments it has. Not only that, but it's slow, methodical pace can prove to be a challenge for some viewers to get through. Nonetheless, it does put a spotlight (see what I did there) on a largely ignored issue of the Catholic Church and its often toxic relationship with its community to hide its faults.
The subject matter is revolting but the way it is exposed by reporters at the Boston Globe newspaper is excellent.
The investigative journalism of the "Spotlight" reporters of the Globe in revealing sordid child abuse amongst some members of the Roman Catholic Church reminded me of All The President's Men in the expose of Watergate.
Michael Keaton is undergoing somewhat of a career renaissance from his superhero Batman days of the late 1980s here as chief Spotlight reporter Walter "Robby" Robinson however it is co-star Mark Ruffalo as hot-headed reporter Mark Rezendes who displays the best scenes in arguments about publishing findings immediately before the full extent of the scandal in Boston is investigated.
The film is not a witch hunt against honest members of the Roman Catholic Church it has other elements to the story. Most notably the "turn the other way" attitudes of people in decades gone buy who could have exposed what was going on many years before.
What I do find interesting about these true stories is the cards left on screen at the end. A sort of what happened next.
A film that has to be viewed so hopefully this sort of thing never happens again and no organisation can cover it up.
Reviewed 2.23.18. Spotlight does the near impossible. It takes the dreadful true story of an epidemic of child molesting priests (it's still hard to fathom) and turns it into a procedural high wire act. Investigative journalism isn't flashy stuff, but the script is genius, slowly folding the page into an origami masterpiece.

There are a lot of moving parts, which leaves less time to fully develop each character, and their personal motivation. But enough gets across, and with no doubt about who we're routing for, the stage is set. 

A dogged group of journalists did their job and exposed an organization previously unkowed over 2000 years of abuses. Finally David's stone hit its mark. If 'the first duty of society is justice,' Spotlight serves us all well.
"Spotlight" details the people, methods, and investigative processes surrounding a newspaper's desire to expose, detail, and reveal the molestation of children by Catholic priests in the Boston, MA area in the 1970s. The value of the film demonstrates the procedures and policies that true investigative reporters will follow in order to find facts that can be revealed in order to assure accuracy that cannot be mitigated. It's hard work, classifying, categorizing, detailing, fact-checking, and memorizing real-time and historical information just to write an exposé that overcomes "just-to-sell newspapers" column. A film well worth viewing.
Brings an intense sublime felling of the massive scale of this atrocity. Extremely well directed, shot, and acted.
A solid effort to portray a sombre story.
Great film. enjoyed it. Good pace throughout with great cast and performances. Rated it a 4.
Spotlight tells the true story of what has happened in the Church and does a great job of it. Everybody gives a great performance and this film kept me interested. I have heard a bit of these situation but I don't know a hole lot about so it was nice to learn about it. My only complaints was that at times the movie did get a little slow and could have been a little shorter. Other the that this was a fantastic film that I would watch again.

9.0/10
Gripping film, with some very good performances involved. A topic I knew very little about which made it even more watchable.
Wonderful story telling and a beautiful example of strong journalism. Reminiscent of All The President's Men.
Spotlight handles its sensitive real-life material with prestige and respect, succeeding as a suitably well-told and certainly superbly acted drama.
Oscar movies these days don't win me over like the other candidates. Bird man should have one best picture. I felt bored except when Rachel mcadams was on. She was the bomb.
Overall an exciting story to uncover the truth. In terms of entertainment value, it would not be as exciting as an imaginary story (hence its 3.5 rating) but it has high artistic value given it is a real story.
An authentic portrayal of investigative journalists facing internal and external obstacles. Engaging and thought-provoking.
Didn't watch a trailer, didn't read a review, and just watched it without knowing what to expect. It totally grabbed my attention, intrigued me, lead me on, and charmed the fuck out of me with its brilliance.
Puntaje Original: 6.5

Excelente guión, excelentes actuaciones que encarnan heroicos personajes. Spotlight nos ofrece una película sumamente reflexiva. Estructuralmente impecable, espectacular en todo sentido.Aunque cuenta con un final muy predecible y nada impactante en realidad, Spotlight es algo que vale la pena ver.
Plodding, dull, and for such a charged topic, pretty boring. This tale of the saintly press vs a deviant is so predictable it will surprise you how unimaginative it is; true story or not. 

Ruffalo goes totally overboard with his 'performance' while McAdams is too mousey. This picture basically falters because it gives the impression that Boston as a whole and the Catholic-Irish make up of the place generally, do not really exist and are merely extras in this film about the prowess of journalism. The world outside the newspaper's office seemed to act as non-factor/veneer for the movie's most important people, our stars, the aforementioned press. Thus this factor was so strong, the film ends up feeling segregated. The handful of journos and their lair comprise the film, and when they fain to venture out into Massachusetts, it remains about them, not the everyday Bostonians that they encounter, whose existence is the reason for the story in the first place. 

The people of Boston were kept too far from the screen.
One of the most boring movies I have ever tried to watch, I lasted about 30 minutes sorry.,
An excellent, bleak look at the happens leading up to the exposure of the Catholic churches in the early 2000's. Very tastefully done, but also very dark. Truly phenomenal performances from Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton.
Horrifying subject. Worse because it's a true story. 
Good acting. Well made.
A group of tenacious journalists uncover a vast Catholic conspiracy to diddle alter boys.
Very interesting to see the investigation (or lack of one) that went into uncovering the Catholic Church scandal. The narrative is a bit dry at times, but the cast and the nature of the plot give the movie an inquisitive drive that is very engaging.
McCarthy's direction is spot on and tastefully executed, doing tremendous justice to not only the story itself, but to everyone involved which, I'm sure, was no easy feat when dealing with such a sensitive subject. Intriguing, powerful and fantastically cast, 'Spotlight' absolutely deserves all of the accolades it has received.
GREG: (Greg Smith, Founder of Agile Writers of Richmond, VA) Scott, it s time to shine a little light on our latest review.

SCOTT: (Dr. Scott Allison, Professor of Psychology, University of Richmond) I pray that we get this review right, Greg. Let s recap.

GREG: It s the year 2001 in Boston and the Boston Globe has a new editor. Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) has just read an article about how the Boston Archbishop Cardinal Law was accused of protecting a priest who was sexually abusing children. He directs Robby Robertson (Michael Keaton) to take his crack investigative team, Spotlight, and dig deeper and see how far the accusations go.

SCOTT: One member of the Spotlight team, Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), is assigned the task of interviewing Mitchell Garabedian (Stanley Tucci), an attorney who represents a number of victims of priest molestations. Garabedian leaks information to Rezendes that the extent of the abuse scandal is far greater than it appears. The team shows resourcefulness in uncovering the names of 87 priests whose crimes were covered up by the church.

GREG: Scott, Spotlight is a great story of team problem solving. At first the Spotlight team believes they are trying to uncover a coverup of a single priest gone bad, they soon discover there are as many as 87 pedophile priests in the Boston archdiocese. As Robertson and his team work to learn as much as they can, they are thwarted at every turn by Bostonians who don t want the secret out. It seems everyone wants to believe they live in a good town, and to let the truth out would make Boston look very bad. It s Nationalism at the city level.

SCOTT: Spotlight is a movie cut from the same cloth as The Big Short. Both these movies expose the corruptive elements of our society and how leadership (if you can call it that) often turns a blind eye to malfeasance. For me, Spotlight works better than Big Short. In Spotlight, we enjoy nice continuity in following one team of heroes throughout the story whereas Big Short presents a scattered approach that is dissatisfying. We discuss the team as an important unit of heroic protagonist in our latest book, Reel Heroes & Villains. Spotlight showcases the workings of a heroic team in wonderful detail. The heroes in this story are what we call catalyst heroes. They don t transform themselves as a result of their journey (which is typical of the hero s journey). Instead, catalyst heroes transform society. We ve encountered catalytic heroes in other movies we ve reviewed, such as Martin Luther King, Jr., in Selma. These Boston Globe journalists truly do shake things up in the Catholic Church, right some terrible wrongs, and better society as a result. One could also argue that these heroes occupy a category of heroes called protectors. These are heroes who look out for the underdog. They help and protect the weak, the disadvantaged, and those who cannot protect themselves. So we have a team of catalytic protector heroes who do what needs to be done to correct injustices, protect others, and reform a corrupt system. In a sense, they are a team of superheroes.

GREG: You re right, Scott. I call such movies  cause  films because they expose some cause the filmmakers think the public should know about. Often they resemble documentaries because the cause becomes more important than the story. Spotlight overcomes this problem to a very large degree because it focuses on the people in the story. Not only the victims, but on the reporters and how the revelations affect them personally. You mention that the main characters don t transform. But I did see a transformation in Robby Robertson. The pedophile story had been brought to his attention years earlier but he buried it in the Metro section of the paper. He overcame his guilt and shame to lead his team to a compelling story and discovery of a nationwide conspiracy within the church to hide widespread sexual abuse within the Catholic church. When I look for mentors, I look for a character who gives guidance and support to the heroes. Marty Baron, the new editor of the Boston Globe, performs this role. He lays down the  call to adventure  when he challenges Robby Robertson and his team to investigate Cardinal Law. Robertson first  refuses the call  - because nobody challenges the church. But Baron persists and pushes the Spotlight team to dig ever deeper.

SCOTT: Good call about Marty Baron, Greg. This movie drives home the important point that it often takes exotic outsiders to effect change in people and in organizations. Baron is a Jew in a city dominated by Catholics. He s also new in town, having moved to Boston from Florida. He couldn t be more different from the status quo, and as such he brings fresh perspectives that challenge standard practices. The hero s journey in classic mythology is rife with examples of exotic creatures from far away lands who magically appear before the hero to help him or her resolve whatever conflict the hero faces. Yoda from Star Wars is a striking modern example. Baron represents the mentor who arrives on the scene, unsought by the Spotlight team and perhaps even unwelcome. Yet his impact is unmistakable and positive, as they grow to discover. Another type of mentor is the one who is actively sought out by the hero. During their investigation, the team seeks the guidance of a researcher in Baltimore who enlightens the team about the huge extent of the problem. Again, it is an outsider who helps the heroic team accomplish its mission. One last point. As we ve seen in other movies, Greg, heroes must often overcome the influence of dark mentors. There is an older male character named Pete Conley (Paul Guilfoyle) who represents the church and whose job is to fix problems for the church such as this one. He counsels Robby, or rather tries to counsel Robby, to ignore the problem because the city needs the church, etc. Robby will not drop the case and the dark mentoring attempt fails.

GREG: Spotlight is a surprisingly good  cause  movie - mainly because it focuses on the impact the story has on the principle characters. I was also impressed that such a star-studded ensemble cast shared the  spotlight  so well. Although, the personal lives of each character got little attention, so characterization was a bit thin. But I was entertained while I was educated, which is the goal of such a cause film, afterall. I give Spotlight 4 out of 5 Reels. The main character in this story is Robby Robertson and he has a mild transformation. But it is the city of Boston that undergoes the transformation due to the efforts of the ensemble cast. This makes them a sort of  catalytic  team hero which I give 3 Heroes to. The secondary characters also take on mentorship roles. There s the dark mentor Conley that Scott mentioned. As well as the newcomer Marty Baron who can see things with eyes. Their mentorship isn t as profound as it might have been. I give them just 3 out of 5 Cast Points. Movie: Cast:  Hero:

SCOTT: I think you pretty much nailed it, Greg. Spotlight shines a light on the dark workings of a religious organization that participated in a shameful cover-up of countless unspeakable crimes. This film is effective in portraying how a team of journalists finds its moral core so that it can shed light on a church that has lost its moral core. The acting, the pacing, and the storytelling are all exemplary. I also award this film 4 Reels out of 5. The team of heroes at the Boston Globe are fun to watch as they unravel the mystery confronting them. They bring about transformative change to their community and to the Catholic church, and they deliver justice to hundreds of victims whose tragic stories never saw the light of day. Watching these heroes do their heroic work was gratifying. I give them 4 Heroes out of 5. The supporting cast was strong and provided exactly what our team of heroes needed to do their job (or to make their heroic job harder). The work here is more than perfunctory but not quite exemplary. A rating of 3 out of 5 cast points seems reasonable here.  Movie: Cast:  Hero:
It has a tight, close-knit focus on its story and themes complimented by an excellent build-up and serious character performances. The style is barren though, with no real creativity to its cinema beyond moments of suggestive photography and maybe a a good sequence or two.
Well written, well produced, well acted historical movie.
Expected this this to be kind dull but I was drawn in the whole time. Great movie.
Respectful look into abuse in authority with good performances from the cast. Not All The President's Men but a worthy effort.
heavy and serious, but the acting is really strong. It's not something enjoyable, it's rather upsetting, but it makes us feel a better sense of how tragic the events were, and it gives us a better sense of how the victims felt.
This movie takes a true moment in history where the Catholic Church covered up the molestation of children within the different diocese and makes a great film to watch. This is a movie that people need to watch even if it's difficult to if you're a Catholic yourself or was at a point in your life.
Decent -- Yes, but watchable is not synonymous with Oscar-worthy
Well directed and well acted; it nevertheless is unable to "spotlight" the human factor because of its broad cast of characters. When it comes to a response from the viewer, there is not much difference between watching this film and reading the article that it's about.
Brilhante, simplesmente brilhante...
Incredibly well done, what put it over top was way it honestly time story without sensationalizing or painting Church as a cartoony evil.
One of the better journalism films I can recall. The entire cast is game, specifically Ruffalo. The secrets uncovered throughout make for some top notch suspense.
What the reporting done on "All The President's Men" did for Nixon, Spotlight did for abuse allegations made against the church exposing how the church were able to get way from being persecuted or held accountable this long despite those allegations being well known .  Second movie of Michael Keaton on the newspaper industry..
Rarely do films with this much information and relevance seem so perfectly in order for the audience to both understand what it is trying to represent and feel for the people involved.
Wow. This is an incredible film. This movie takes an unflinching look at the investigation and circumstances surrounding the massive-scale child abuse perpetrated by priests and covered up by the Catholic Church. And man, is it powerful. It seems like a movie about journalists would be on the dull side, but this movie was totally engrossing. It's so well written and constructed, the 2-hour run-time passed in a flash, and it even left me wanting more. As the characters learn about how widespread the problem is, you can literally watch their shock and horror grow... as does the viewer's. In making a film like this, it's easy to blame the corrupt institution that perpetuated this violence, but this film takes it to another level and makes it abundantly clear that there is enough blame to go around. This abuse was systemic, not only within the church, but within our culture. As it is so eloquently stated in the movie, "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one." My only criticism is that the beginning felt a little rushed, I wish they had spent more time explaining who was who. While "The Revenant" is excellent filmmaking, "Spotlight" is excellent storytelling.... and a well-told story will get my vote every time. Actors at the top of their game, competent direction, and fantastic writing combine to make what I believe should be the Best Picture winner. I already want to see it again.
From a small scandal to one state-wide and beyond, the pacing of the film is brilliant, with well-written characters and enough shock value and intrigued to keep you watching.
Amazing.  The acting is superb and it's an amazing movie
Spotlight tells the true story of how the Boston Globe uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese, shaking the entire Catholic Church to its core.

Overall, I found Spotlight to be one the best films I've ever seen. As much as I love journalism, I found Spotlight to nail every bit of journalism. From sacrifices, commitments, disturbing facts, and uncovering the truth. Spotlight was hands down the best film of 2015. Spotlight's acting ensemble was grade A incredible. Ruffalo, Keaton, McAdams, Tucci, and Schreiber, were a powerhouse cast, that you cannot take your eyes off of. Screenwriters McCarthy and Singer, truly nail on what the Spotlight team did: find the truth. Spotlight is definite must-see, that will somewhat change the way you positively think about the catholic church's, and Vatican.
this movie is so good it makes you feel everything.
Spotlight depicts a real story from a boston globe journalist group who investigated allegations of child abuse from the catholic church, the level of realism is impressive the cuts are subtle and well made and the plot is very well built since it is a A film that passes a lot of information, papers, documents, the chance that the film becomes boring was great but the plot does not let that happen, the subject is very shocking and this gives a great mystery to the plot besides being fluid exploring very well The teamwork of journalists, the cast is perfect actors fit very well in their roles giving a very real sense of realism to the movie that sometimes looks like a documentary, all in a way are contained at a certain point what makes scenes where their emotions Appear to be much more impacting, in general in a film made not for the entertainment but to tell a good story infattering how the Catholic institution controls Everything and everyone and protects their even from acts like rape. The film tackles a real story and a seriously controversial theme very well and with mastery, in general there is not much that changes in him.note 100
Incredible story-telling at its finest. A total must-see and all the more remarkable for being a true story.
emotionally powerful masterfully acted
god bless good journalism
One of my new all time favs.....amazing acting, amazing story, just all around a wonderful movie
Yes the message in this story is powerful, but it was so boring with the whole process, it's too draggy as well and I didn't enjoy one bit of the movie.
Very fascinating topic that unfolds well on screen.
Stellar performances from an excellent cast.  Not terribly cinematic, but it's a very compelling story.
Una buena historia no asegura una buena película, esta si bien esta bien trabajada no tiene nada en la manera de ser narrada que atrape.
God bless the catholic church
A fantastic movie with great acting and amazing writing.
Nice acting, intense investigative journalism movie
Pretty solid performances and an interesting story.  A bit of a sow start though but a good solid 4 stars.
A good film showing the abuse perpetrated by white cathos and the lack of justice in the democratic "america". A slap to the face of those who think the Catolic church perpetuates socialist values. But, I feel like the theme of abuse is not explored enough, why not talk about the Franklin scandal ? The multicultural children kidnapped and kept as sexual slaves to powerful whites ? Kid of a shame it is so short sighted, It's made from whites to the white Oscar judges. This is a step forward, even if the all white cast is kind of depressing.
i still have no idea how this movie was movie of the year. I get it,the topic is controversial  and good actora,but it was so boring. too much dialogue had me bored to tears, i even left the theater early
This is one of those movies that could easily be something boring to watch but the director did such a great job at making the movie entertaining and almost suspenseful to watch. 

I'm glad movies like these are being made, same goes with The Big Short. Great movie overall!
without a doubt the best movie of the year. Spotlight is powerful brilliantly acted and an important true story extremely well told.
This is one of those movies you cannot multitask during.  every word counts.  I recommend tissues.
I don't see way people love it so much. Crap as far as I can tell
Captivating story that keeps you invested into the journal investigation that actually is about something that matters!
Nothing exceptional, but also no weaknesses. This is a very, very good movie.
Hell of a movie. One of the better paced dramas I've seen in a long time
Don't underestimate the power of journalism! My salute to the real Spotlight team and all the people who made this film. Goosebumps all the way through. You won't believe the events portrayed in the film actually happened in the real world. Highly Recommended!
Perfect storytelling, acting and directing. Saw the premier in a crowded Boston theater and the audience was visibly and audibly shaken and moved.  One of the best movies in years.
A great detail study on journalism that matters. The awful discovery that the Catholic Church as an institution is corrupt and the dealings of sexual abuse make this movie a hard one to watch for Catholics. The cast did a great job to keep the slow moments interesting. However, I wouldn't have ever guessed it merited an Academy Award for best movie. A-
I took a while getting around to watching this because just thinking about the topic unsettled me.  That feeling certainly never left as I watched but I don't regret watching it.  I feel the story is told in a straightforward way that, more than getting me up in arms, asks me to reflect on the part I play in the human drama we all help to create.
"oscar worthy with a stellar cast and outstanding performances. gripping and on target."
SPOTLIGHT (2015) Calificación: 8.5/10
For Spotlight, the story of a real team of Boston Globe reporters who uncovered a wide-reaching child abuse scandal, the film's greatest virtue seems to be its verisimilitude. Every review I have read by critics that either work for newspapers or have studied journalism, extolls the film's accurate portrayal of journalists and their profession. Comparisons to Oscar-nominated All the President's Men are ubiquitous and inevitable; both are dramatizations of true stories about journalists uncovering crimes and cover-ups involving powerful institutions. Like All the President's Men, and two other 2015 Best Picture nominees-The Big Short and Bridge of Spies, Spotlight depicts a true story to which we already know the outcome. However, the film is so well-executed that we are right with the characters in each moment, feeling, as they do, what must happen, but unsure whether they will succeed. 

Early in Spotlight, the Globe's new editor-in-chief, Marty Baron (played with a laconic manner and inscrutable expression by Liev Schrieber) is summoned for a meet-and-greet with Cardinal Law, head of the Boston Archdiocese. Law tells him, "The city flourishes when its great institutions work together," The Cardinal's notion of working together implies that the Globe will protect the interests of the Church; a notion which puts Baron on guard. After reading a column about a sexually abusive Boston priest, Baron urges Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton) to have his team of investigative reporters, known as Spotlight, make their next project about sexual abuse within the Church and the cover-up by the Archdiocese. Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Brian d'Arcy James are the three other members of the Spotlight team. The more they dig into the known cases of sexual abuse of children by priests, they quickly discover that they are not dealing with one or two isolated cases of abuse, but something far bigger and more disturbing. The frequency of the abuse, and lack of consequences for the abusers, points to an insidious cover-up, reaching all the way to Cardinal Law himself. However, the team needs hard proof to support their story and the search for that proof is where the plot of Spotlight builds its momentum. 

Spotlight has an impressive cast, but the real stars of the movie are the devastating facts and the testimonials of the survivors. We follow the reporters down their investigative trail, searching through reams of papers, having conversations with lawyers and Church representatives, and tracking down survivors willing to share their stories. Court appeals to open sealed documents and searches for records in basement file cabinets are executed as engaging and suspenseful action. As reporter Sacha Pfeiffer, McAdams conducts several interviews with survivors of abuse. The scenes build slowly - the reporter knows she can't push for answers; they have to tell their stories at their own speed. McAdams, as the stand-in for the audience, must patiently listen and these are among the most powerful and effective scenes in the film.

Every character, major and minor, feels like a real person; which is good because this story really happened to real people. Mark Ruffalo gets top billing and has received an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for a performance which some feel is the best of the ensemble. With a pronounced accent and mannerisms, it is certainly the most noticeable. Even in scenes with Stanley Tucci (an actor who is always ready to steal a scene, or the entire movie) as an eccentric, sharp-tongued lawyer with crazy hair who is bringing a suit against the Church, Ruffalo somehow manages to be the showier performer. Ruffalo's performance is not bad, but it does stick out among an ensemble of naturalistic performances. Keaton and the others seem to disappear into their roles instead of wearing them. 

Tom McCarthy's Oscar-nominated direction gives Spotlight a straightforward, but not dull, visual style. The camera and screenplay keep their focus on the characters and the investigation. This movie could have easily slipped into a series of fist-pounding speeches of righteous indignation (one scene with Ruffalo's character that feels more obligatory than earned comes the closest) and made the Globe reporters into crusaders, but McCarthy and co-writer Josh Singer, along with the excellent ensemble, keep the tone of the movie subdued and grounded in reality. 

Spotlight is smart enough to know that it doesn't have to tell its audience when to feel frustrated, repulsed, and outraged-the facts speak for themselves. The Spotlight team naturally faces resistance from the Church and their lawyers, but, somewhat surprisingly, also from the community. Boston is a largely Catholic community after all (each of the Spotlight reporters is a lapsed Catholic); but more than that, they resist against having to acknowledge such an endemic problem exists, as if by denying the problem, they escape implication. Even the Globe staff had mishandled and buried past stories about sexual abuse by priests. One person who helped the Church cover up abuse cases says that he was just doing his job. The reporters of the Spotlight team are also just doing their jobs, and fortunately they are very good at their jobs.
I do not comment on many films, but Spotlight is such a powerful film, that tugged at my heart, with sympathy for the victims of these crimes and disdain for the system that let them down.     I am so sad that the box office does not reflect the lessons that need to be learned from a film such as this
Spotlight gracefully handles the lurid details of its fact-based story in a drama that honors the audience as well as its real-life subjects.
Absolutely incredible. Carefully handled, well-acted and beautifully shot + directed. EIther makes you want to be a journalist or thank one.
Both the film's characters and their real-life counterparts emphasize the power of the press, the power of investigative journalism, and the power of care and compassion. Without exaggerating too much of its subject matter, Spotlight is a worthy achievement of film in its own right and it does so with real, believable emotions.
Not bad, just very ordinary. Had the feeling I had already seen it.
"Good but ordinary".
Who'da thought a movie about a newspaper exposing the Church would be so thrilling? Wonderful acting and writing, and pulled off well by an all-star cast. Can't really say much bad about a film like this. Let truth win.
One of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  Was worried it would be boring but it was riveting.
Whilst unevenly paced at times, Spotlight is a haunting film that dives deep into the horrors of the subject matter which it deals with.
I thought this was a very good movie and would recommend it to anyone.
Bello e interessante. Il tema é scomodo ma evita elegantemente di indugiare sugli aspetti scabrosi. Ruffalo bravissimo.
*Worst Movie.  Points off for winning Best Picture.  What a forgettable boring movie.  This movie does wrong everything that Zodiac and All the Presidents Men did right.  How many times have you rewatched this.  Never.  I knew it.
Thoroughly felt grateful for the Spotlight team. A story that never loses its pace, movie of the year 2015. 9.5/10 (rewatch).
Spotlight goes about its business in such an unheralded, quiet manner, yet the sense of discovery and intimate power innately found therein is truly mesmerizing, in the most unassuming way.
Finally got a chance to see this Oscar winner and it delivered. It's simply stunning what the Catholic Church has covered up over the years and they way they've simply shuffled off these child predators off to other locales. So glad to know they've changed course the past few years, but this shows the value of good reporting. We need these people out there doing their jobs to cast a light on the evils that men do so that we can make the necessary changes to get them out of power. Great film.
Brilliant film bringing to light the investigation of a really important topic.  All the actors are great and the tension is good.  Thoroughly deserving of its Academic Award.
Straightforward unsensational expose.
What was initially a ropey start with dubious music and a distinct feeling of television movies from the 90s soon turned into an interesting piece on journalism and conspiracies. The cast is absolutely stellar and once I adpated to their boston accents they were a joy throughout. Liev Shreiber continues to be a very diverse actor while Ruffalo and Keaton are always dependable (it's good to see Keaton being more active). The cover up is despicable from the ones actively involved but the film does a great job of showing it was also covered up by those simply not wanting to believe it was so widespread and even those who ignored because it didn't seem a big enough story at the time. It's a film that reminds you investigative journalism is still of vital importance and that the news isn't just about celebrities, advertising and clickbait.
Best movie in 2015 for sure. They really managed to represent true story with good cast. Recommended.
Spotlight is a good film with a great purpose behind its release. However it may be a few minutes too long.
Wow when they show the list at the end I got goosebumps and a sick feeling of disgust.
Astonishingly powerful film with an incredible cast. Spotlight manages to present its subject matter in a poignant way and avoids unnecessary 'hero-worshipping' of the subjects. Sure the plot can get rather jumbled at times but that serves to give the impression of the sheer volume of work, links and leads that the real life subjects had to go through. 
Brilliant, absolutely brilliant.
The best ensemble performance in years, assuredly crafted and presented. Worthy of it's awards.
An absolute top-notch cast with great acting. However, director McCarthy fails to tell a compelling story. Its pace is predictable; the reporters are chasing lead after lead and after half an hour you know how the movie is going to unfold. Unfortunately, the brilliance of the actors just isn't enough to grip the attention of the audience.
I like movies where there is a strong story and the actors don't try hard at all to tell u that story :) this is one of those movies!
This best-made film I've seen in a long, long time. No complaints about anything.
Spotlight is way too boring to even care about all its technical achievements.
Bem feito, e aborda um tema relevante. Porém esquecível. Filme extremamente super estimado. Mereceu o mesmo o Oscar de melhor filme ?
It won best picture for a reason right.
I try not to compare this to All The President's Men... but I have to.

It's not so well paced or exciting as you'd think, but Spotlight is in its own way. It also presented the media in a positive light, and it's production value does not disappoint. But comparing it to The Revenant, I honestly don't disagree the Oscar shouldn't have gone to this indie drama.
THIS is what The Big Short could have been . .  but . . . was NOT for purely political reasons.

Imagine Spotlight without unqualifiedly right and proper references to homosexual pedophilia by Roman Catholic priests . . . well . . . THAT is what The Big Short was without right and proper references to Clinton/Dodd/Frank forcing American financial institutions to loan to objectively NOT creditworthy borrowers.

Spotlight's cast was highlighted by typically outstanding performance by Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and Stanley Tucci and Len Cariou.

Tight script coupled with outstanding directing and superb editing . . . Spotlight is a winner.  Buy it . . . see it . . . collect it for future reference of what GREAT semi-documentary can be.
Deserved of the Oscar praise!
While it wasn't my first reaction when I sat down to watch "Spotlight," I did have a nagging feeling in the back of my brain as it started that this could just be one of those "Award Bait" films that overdoes its drama, tries really hard to make it look artsy without really injecting anything creative and overflowing its cast with lots of big name actors in order to buy itself some gravitas.  Thankfully, the movie proved to be none of that as it was a fantastically acted, extremely grounded in its drama and the whole thing felt very real and meaningful.  It has no flash and the presentation is fairly by-the-numbers but it is in the real-feel drama it provides and the ridiculously sympathetic and realistic performances that make this story adapted from real life very engaging and emotional.  The only drawback I had for the film is that I don't see a lot of replay potential in it for me but that doesn't stop it from being a truly amazing film.

Hello!  My name is Rev. Ron and if you feel like checking out more of my reviews you can visit my blog at RevRonMovies.BlogSpot.com.  You can also head on over to TheRobotsPajamas.com for various articles I write there and, if you want to, you can follow me on Twitter (@RevRonster).  Thanks!
A biopic without strong acting and lines, but an excellent demonstration of pace. With that said, the power of press itself cannot win the Best Pic.
A stellar ensemble cast enriches Spotlight's tedious plot into the best movie of the year.  McCarthy sheds light on the arduous process of writing a major story from gathering information to coverage and ultimately publishing. It can feel difficult to focus at parts but it builds momentum and delivers a satisfactory conclusion.
Spotlight benefits from dedicated actors, a stellar script, and a relevant issue to spin together a high caliber modern newspaper story.
White collar pornography at its finest.
Worth 4 stars simply for addressing the subject in an honest fashion. I sensed a little journalistic caution, though. It could have hit even harder.
Sad topic. Very well told. Superb acting. You know the ending going in but the film still maintains a sense of urgency. Very well paced I thought.
Powerful & Independent Journalism in 2hours! & also about how institutional power degrades, when its taken for granted!
Intense drama that makes us wonder about the world and its society. With a cast full of brilliant actors, this movie is a must-see in everyone's list.
Amazing movie. I thought Mark Ruffalo deserved an Oscar nomination.
Good film carried by great directing and performances. It's plot has been laid out by the historical events it is based on, which isn't always a plus, but the story gets what it deserves. I personally would have liked to see a little bit more character development, but the film wasn't made to make you like the characters, but rather showcase the historical event that took place.
Apparently there used to be something called "newspapers" where "journalists" checked their "facts."  Seriously, though, this is a good movie, even if too safe and sanitized for my tastes.
A dramatisation of the true 2002 Boston Globe investigative team called spotlight  uncovering of Catholic Priest child molestation on a systemic scale including decades of abuse going back to the 70s. It avoids the pitfall of righteous indignation and specific film heroes. It sticks to the facts and the actors dramatise it well. The sad thing, it is still going on - children are still coming forward with recent accusations of molestation. The Globe revealed the extent to which the Catholic hierarchy systematically covered up abuses by first just moving the priest to another area and getting the victims to accept small and secret compensations. They avoided any public records by calling it a 'private mediation' so lawyers were involved (taking a 30% cut of the typically $20k compensation) but not in a public court. Moreover the victims' families were encouraged to keep quiet about it and not even talk to their fellow parishioners. Even the boss of the Spotlight team admitted he had ignored a report of 20 abusive priest 20 years prior as he did not believe it.
The film ends with a list of other American cities that have uncovered a similar pattern of cover up (pages and pages) and then goes on to cities world-wide. It is world-wide scandal that the Catholic Church needs to resolve and bring those abusers to justice.
It is a worthy, sombre, serious drama that people should see.
You may already know the story, but thanks to a great cast this is still a great watch and continues the long time love affair between cinema and journalism.
Sleeper-hit. Hadn't heard of it until it won Best Picture. Told like a mystery drama, edge of your seat stuff.
Everyone needs to see this movie it's one of the most important films I've ever watched
Intense and Brilliant Thriller!

This film tells the riveting true story of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Boston Globe investigation that would rock the city and cause a crisis in one of the world's oldest and most trusted institutions. When the newspaper's tenacious 'Spotlight' team of reporters delves into allegations of abuse in the Catholic Church, their year-long investigation uncovers a decades-long cover-up at the highest levels of Boston's religious, legal, and government establishment, touching off a wave of revelations around the world. This tense investigative dramatic-thriller traces the steps to one of the biggest cover-ups in modern times.

I loved this movie! As someone who studied journalism in college and worked at a newspaper in my early 20s, I was fascinated by this story regarding the Boston Globe's in-depth investigation of the Catholic Church. In my opinion, it is one of the greatest newspaper pieces ever made. In fact, as Ann Hornaday of the Washington Post wrote, "It's not a stretch to suggest that 'Spotlight' is the finest newspaper movie of its era, joining 'Citizen Kane' and 'All The President's Men' in the pantheon of classics of the genre." I couldn't agree more! Two thumbs up!
Excellent film on good investigative journalism being an important moral watchdog of society.
This movie is a screenwriting class !
my eyes are brimming over with tears, my heart is heavy because this story is true.  I'm so sorry for how the church could hurt so many, and handle it so wrongly.
Una de las mejores pelìculas sobre el periodismo de los ùltimos años.
Good film about a difficult subject
is based on a true story. It is an investigative dramatic-thriller set in 2001-02. The Boston Globe an American newspaper, investigative team 'Spotlight' expose the story of sexual abuse and cover-ups in the Catholic Church. All of the main characters in the film has performed well. A riveting tale that won itself Best Picture at the Oscar earlier this year.
Well written, directed and portrayed by a great cast.
Enjoyed the movie, but the subject matter breaks my trust of anyone in a position of power.
Spotlight is the rare true story film that refuses to give in to Hollywood pandering and instead depicts its heroes as merely human beings trying to do the right thing.
great cast and story
Investigative journalism can be exciting -- and Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, and Michael Keaton, among others, help to make it so.  Taking a page from All the President's Men (1976), director Tom McCarthy tells us the story of the Boston Globe's Pulitzer Prize winning exposure of the Catholic Church's cover-up of an epidemic of paedophile priests.  The story is still reverberating today and around the world.  Despite the absorbing nature of the hunt for clues, evidence, or a smoking gun, at its heart this is a profoundly depressing story.  After all, it is child sexual abuse we are talking about.  Howard Shore's music is suitably downbeat and ruminative.  The actors temper their zeal with gravity.  Yet, is the issue really given enough of a serious treatment?  Viewers may be able to focus on the newspaper room without having to think too carefully or clearly about abuse, even though we hear victims describe their experiences and are told that many have committed suicide or engaged in self-defeating behaviour.  Not that I'd want to watch a more harrowing version of this - so perhaps the journalistic thriller genre is the best way to bring the issues into the public eye (if they weren't already).  McCarthy and Josh Singer won the Oscar for their screenplay, which is all talk but engaging and not sensationalistic, and of course the film won the Best Picture Oscar as well.
A gritty, strong film with incredible performance.  The Catholic Church as an institution comes out in sharply deliberated dark light.
simply great movie,with charming soundtrack,oscar worthy screenplay, great acting from keaton and ruffalo so as rachel mccadams but not an oscar nomination worthy very enjoyable but not best picture of the year but in the end bravo tom mccarthy
Perfectly executed praise of the power of the press. A stellar cast and flawless direction make for an engaging and highly entertaining result. It doesn't even take major shockers to make this such a satisfying and smart movie. It requires some concentration but is ultimately even more rewarding for it.
Even though you know the story always a bit shocking to have it reiterated.
The best movie of 2015.  An absolutely phenomenal film that gets better with each viewing.  Mark Ruffalo gives the best performance of his career (With all due respect to Mark Rylance, Ruffalo should have won the Academy Award.).  The entire cast is excellent as well.  "Spotlight" also makes a point that many people fail to realize.  Print journalism is still a very important and relevant medium even today in the age of "The Huffington Post" and other online newspapers.  I am very happy this film took home the Oscars for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay, but it should have won every category it was nominated in.  In is that great of a film.
Wow - thank goodness for real investigative journalism.
Not an easy watch, but brilliant in its own right.
One of the best films of the decade. Up there with All The President's Men as a reminder of the power of journalism as a force for good.
Despite it's unsettling true story, Tom McCarthy and Josh Singers's screenplay and the excellent ensemble cast deliver justice to the unfortunate events and a compelling statement about morals and the power of journalism.
https://sites.google.com/view/ttbreviews/our-company/spotlight
Spotlight tackles a touchy subject with finesse supported by great performances and detailed writing.
If you want to understand why real journalism, investigative journalism is important and should be funded, watch this. A strong subject, an incredible cast masterfully put together. Definitely one of the best movies of 2015.
Best movie ever. No flaw what so ever. The true beauty of this movie is in the dialogue and the editing.
If you liked the theme behind All the President's Men you will love this movie.  High drama and an all-star cast.  Recommended.
Disturbing and powerful - they don't make movies like this one.
While most might find it a little late, Spotlight is still an important film because it's still just as relevant today. It's a fascinating film telling an equally fascinating story.
Other than the "Oscar Speech", this is really solid.
Tremendo Drama basado en Hechos Reales.
The best movie of the year. Everything about this movie is on point, the spotlight shone on the mass abuse and widely hidden scandal of the Catholic Church.  A hard hitting drama that is not to be missed!
Riveting !  A journeyman ensemble cast guides this consummately linear Tom McCarthy/Josh Singer screenplay home. No smoke, no mirrors. Add  a pair of well deserved Oscars to the Globe Spotlight Team's Pulitzer Prize. 

For the record, there are 18 Roman Catholic Archdioceses and 72 Dioceses in Canada. The Archdioceses of St. John's, NL and Sherbrooke, QC appear on the list (at the end of the film) of Dioceses that have been involved in similar cover-ups.
Oh yes--- find the reviewers who didn't like this and cross them off your list.  This is exactly what hollywood movies should be--- exciting, fun, superbly directed, and meaningful too.  Rare.
Both essential and well-made, 'Spotlight' captures and reflects the horrors of reality at its finest.
everyone does have to right to know about these incidents
I am not pro-Catholic or pro-religion but I just don't see this as anywhere near a great movie. It was boring and poorly acted/directed. It took me two painful sittings to get through it and I only did that since I was told how great a movie it was. It was slow-paced and hard to keep focused on what was supposedly "happening". I appreciate the efforts of the Boston Globe to pursue sexual predators but that effort did not translate to the big screen in my opinion. Extremely average movie at best.
Excelent! in addition to showing a global reality,  it does demonstrate as should be a job as a reporter.
A great thriller movie, see it it's brilliant.
This film brilliantly portrays the true story of how the Catholic church pedophile scandal was revealed.  What's more important is that it shows how necessary investigative journalism is in this dying newspaper age.  Mark Ruffalo stands out with his amazing Oscar nominated performance.
An important and a must watch movie!
Better than I thought it would be!  I was not only surprises this was available on Netflix Streaming, but also because neither Michael Keaton and Mark Ruffalo didn't win Oscars. I am glad it won Best Picture.
Thoroughly gripping.
Great drama, great cast. Good look at investigative journalism.  I'm a sucker for a lot of talking in a movie. Conversations between characters may be the most important and compelling aspect of a movie for me.
I think the only reason why this movie won the oscar instead of Whiplash and Mad max is  because it is  an anticatholic propaganda movie.
I can't find fault with this film. My date was bothered by the lack of coverage of the church's response to the corruption in the epilogue sequence; besides that, she had no complaints either. I previously worked as an investigative researcher at an anti-corruption nonprofit, and this movie gave me chills and made me miss my old employer - it really nailed the joy of the journalistic hunt for bad guys. All acting was excellent, especially Stanley Tucci, Mark Ruffalo, and Rachel McAdams. I would watch this again.
The characters are not the focus here, it's the slow reveal of the gut-churning information. Spotlight is the very definition of an important and relevant film.
A true thriller without any action scenes required.
Some movies are more important for their topics than for their realization. Ok, but it's not that bad if a movie with a serious act of denounce, is also a great movie!
Informative, great performances & story.
Plot: WITH 6 OSCAR NOMINATIONS, SPOTLIGHT IS OBVIOUSLY A MUST SEE FLICK!

Review:
HAVE YOU EVER DANCED WITH THE DEVIL IN THE PALE SPOTLIGHT?

WITH 6 OSCAR NOMINATIONS, SPOTLIGHT IS OBVIOUSLY A MUST SEE FLICK! 

SPOTLIGHT is about how in 2001, editor Marty Baron, played by Liev Schreiber (X - Men Origins: Wolverine, Salt) of The Boston Globe assigns a team of journalists to investigate John Geoghan, a priest accused of molesting more than 80 boys. The team of journalist are led by editor Walter "Robby" Robinson, played by Michael Keaton ("I'm Batman.") , reporters Michael Rezendes, played by Mark Ruffalo (13 Going On 30, The Avengers). The reporters make it their mission to provide proof of a cover up of sexual abuse within the Roman Catholic Church. 

When I first saw the trailer to this movie, I didn't know what to really expect. It came off like a drama, likeness of an independent film, and the type of film a big budget studio wouldn't really make. Especially with the subject matter, and the real life story they want to show on the big screen. 

The problem with many movies based on real life stories, crime, dramas, and cover-ups is you get the feeling as if you are watching that genre. With Spotlight, you really don't know. As the movie unfolds, you learn more; are exposed to more, and see more of what goes on in this world. The writing was phenomenal. I really like how as the story goes along, we see what really goes on behind closed doors. Both legally and with our characters. A ton of real life stories turned into films also suffer from the same format of we need the hero. In this film, the journalists do not really come off as heroes, but everyday people. Meaning, people who do their job, report well, care about justice, and people who simply come off like real individuals. 

In addition, the acting is toned down, but in a good way. The actors and actresses come across like everyday people. No one in this film over acts or seems as if they are acting to win an award. For instance, when you receive bad news, do you act like Samuel L. Jackson in the movie Changing Lanes? Meaning, do you pick up a computer and throw into a glass wall? Or do you shake your head, raise your eyebrows and maybe use profanity under your breath? In my opinion, Sacha Pfeiffer, played by Rachel McAdams (Wedding Crashers, About Time) does an amazing job! I believe that this is Rachel McAdams best movie in a very long time. She acts well, comes off like a good person, helpful, has a purpose, and she really stepped it up with her performance.

BATMAN AND THE HULK ARE ON SCREEN TOGETHER! Says the one nerd in the theater (me).

Once again, I'm glad to see Michael Keaton back in an Oscar worthy film. Mark Ruffalo also is delivering a good performance, and is easily getting better with every movie that comes up. 

So these are my final Bitchin' Buddha thoughts on the film Spotlight. It's very well written, informative, well acted performances from everyone, disturbing at times, and overall a film that is at least worth checking out at least once in your lifetime. I believe Spotlight earns a...

4 out of 5!

Thank you all for reading and or viewing, and I hope you all have an amazing day as always. :)
Spotlight is such a spectacular film for its realness, and that comes from it being greatly acted and directed. This film was very shocking and disturbing but not in the way you would think. The chats between all characters were so real and riveting that it felt like you weren't even looking at a screen, it felt like you were in it.
Wow. One of the best provocative films I've ever seen, absolutely riveting - definitely deserved the Best Picture Oscar.
This movie is very direct, very real. No over the top camera work, no crazy characters, it was simply allowed to unravel in front of you. It is a must see and the story is not over.
I'm having a hard time wrapping my head around the notion that someone can write and direct a really awful film and then, a few months later, come up with an absolutely great film. The awful film here is THE COBBLER, which I reviewed a few months back. The great film is SPOTLIGHT, which was directed and co-written by Tom McCarthy.

In 2001, the New York Times purchased the Boston Globe, and Marty Baron was brought in as the latter paper's new editor-in-chief. For the Times, it was a risky move. Baron, who came from the Miami Herald where he was the executive editor, knew nothing about Boston or its politics. Moreover, he was Jewish in a city where more than half of the paper's readership was Catholic. For the Globe's journalists, it was a nervous time as Baron had a reputation for trimming costs, which included cutting headcount and resources. But, as they quickly discovered, Baron's reputation differed from reality. He wanted to make the Globe relevant again, at a time when the Internet was just starting to make dents in the bottom lines of newspapers everywhere. Very early on in his tenure, he gave the paper's hard-hitting investigative reporting group, Spotlight, a new assignment: The Globe had previously run a story - buried in the paper's Metro section - about a pedophile priest. Although the Archbishop of Boston had subsequently removed the priest from his position and had the courts seal the legal documents to the case, Baron sensed there was something more to the story and he wanted the Spotlight Team to find out what it was.

What started out as an isolated case of sexual abuse of minors involving one priest quickly snowballed into a scandal involving dozens of priests in the Catholic archdiocese in Boston alone, with the cover-up involving the Church, its supporters and its lawyers. The Globe's exposé, which broke in early 2002, resulted in criminal prosecutions and convictions of five priests, and the resignation of Cardinal Law later that year. It also triggered a discussion about sexual abuse in the Church that echoed around the world including in the office of the Pope. The paper ran more than 600 stories on the subject over the course of year earning the Spotlight Team a Pulitzer Prize in 2003.

The movie, SPOTLIGHT, tells the story of that team of investigative journalists - Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton, BIRDMAN), Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo, BEGIN AGAIN), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams, TV's TRUE DETECTIVE) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James) - and their assistant managing editor, Ben Bradlee Jr. (John Slattery, TV's MAD MEN), who worked on the story for over six months before it broke the systemic pattern of abuse and cover-up wide open. The film is an ode to the type of journalism that is sadly dying out under the pressure for instant news and the growing relationship between governments, business interests and the media that influences what we read, hear and see today.

Many critics have drawn positive comparisons to the 1976 film, ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN, which documents the Washington Post's pursuit of the Watergate scandal. Interestingly, the executive editor at the Post back then was Ben Bradlee (played by Jason Robards), the father of Ben Bradlee Jr. Neither film is very sexy or glamourous. They just show - quite accurately, it is said - the hours of painstaking research, the pouring over detailed information, the attempts to get people to tell you things that they may not want to tell you (for any number of reasons), and the checking and re-checking of facts that go into this craft.

Baron (Liev Schreiber, FADING GIGOLO) had told the Spotlight Team to focus on the institutional aspect of the abuse; that is, who knew what and when, and what they did or didn't do about it, rather than simply trying to take down Cardinal Law. The film follows the same dispassionate tack, shying away from gratuitous flashback scenes of abuse or conspiracy and instead focusing on the journalists who patiently gather their evidence and build their story piece by piece. In this era of 24-hour news where the truth often gets trampled on for the sake of being first, it's comforting to know that there are still teams like Spotlight in place that can keep the bad guys in check and remind us all of how reporting should be.

SPOTLIGHT is storytelling and ensemble acting at its best.
The movie is a true life story of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Boston Globe investigation on the taboo subject of child abusive by priests. I knew these things happened but the way it goes about to prove how a system exist to handle and supress the data was shocking. The performance by the ensemble cast is superb, the directions spot on. The movie never try's to dramatize anything; it tries to be deliver the information much like a documentary only with a great cast and direction.
Good story and acting.  Intrusive music and some of dialogue hard to follow.
standard journalism, what else?
Amazing movie based on a true story. I'm so glad this movie was made so it forces more of a 'spotlight' on those events, and the similar events happening today. Justice needs done!
Spotlight is a decent film. It is the story of how the Boston Globe who uncovered the massive scandal of child molestation and cover-up within the local Catholic Archdiocese. Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton give good performances. The script is a little slow in places. Tom McCarthy did an alright job directing this movie. I liked this motion picture of the drama.
This is a must watch. This real story of the mass cover ups by the catholic church of rape and molestation is a story that needs to be heard, and this movie is a machine that is optimized to get the job done. There is no directorial flair, no amazing shots, no real theme even, but a simple presentation so that you are drawn into the realness of the story. The stellar cast plays as a true ensemble, with every character given their own attachment to the issue. They each mirror some portion of society, so everyone has someone to relate to. The characters show emotion, not the storytelling, which allows you to empathize where you can, and you're not forced to have an opinion. The story telling is done in a slow burn, gradually allowing you to understand the magnitude of the  issue, make a difficult pill easier to swallow. This is a movie with a mission, that is reporting the story, not giving a spin on it, mirroring the investigative journalism it depicts.
A really good movie with a very solid cast from top to bottom. Exploring the Catholic Priest Molestation Scandal through the perspective of the reporters who blew the case open was a great idea.
Bon film, Mark Ruffalo est vraiment excellent. Ça aurait cependant pu être encore plus excitant sans travestir l'histoire.
a solid film on an uncomfortable subject...great script...impeccable acting...specially by Ruffalo & Keaton...a terrific procedural drama that celebrates journalism...
Everyone needs to watch this movie.
Intriguing and compelling, I'm just utterly speechless after watching this movie. One of the best movie about journalism out there. If not, the best. Period
Spotlight tells the fascinatingly dark true story of an investigatory journalist team working within the Boston Globe in the early 2000s. Renown for their probing, detailed format they are tasked by the paper's new editor to investigate a cover-up scandal - mass child molestation within the Catholic church. The sickening premise of what they uncover escalates far beyond what they could have ever predicted. The journalists on screen and us (the audience) are forced to question: how could a situation that had effected so many been silenced for so long, and furthermore, who is responsible?

What starts as an ensemble cast becomes narratively driven by Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton's characters, who stood out and resonated most for me. All the crucial characters come with some form of religious baggage, with backgrounds in catholic school or family patronage. All actors involved handle their roles with respect and balance. This is not a film that focuses on individual character development. It's more of a navigation of the wider journalistic story. In its more than 2 hour runtime, the plot is relentless, with information streaming constantly without pause. 
The issue at the heart of Spotlight's narrative could have very easily been hate-fueled, singlehandedly brandishing blame on the church, or religion in general. But the tone doesn't handle the issue in that way. Instead, by the finale, we discover the deeper context. Others members of the community had contributed to the negligence, including attorneys and the press themselves. When the film ended, I was left with this ambiguous and unsettled feeling. The extent of the abuse is incomprehensible and heartbreaking - and you know that this lengthy cinematic adaptation is only skimming the surface.
Spotlight is a riveting journalistic drama that educates and identifies with large-scale corruption in the not so distant past. It delivers intensity in what is essentially a series of scenes where journalist interview persons-of-interest and take a copious amount of notes on spiral notepads.
Spotlight is a biographical investigation film that is directed by Tom McCarthy and stars Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton, Stanley Tucci, and many others. It tells the story about The Boston Globe's team called "Spotlight" who gets a new editor, Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) who is given the task to investigate a catholic priest who sexually abused children. This leads the team to find out there is more at hand here than what was entially thought. 
  The movie is a difficult one to review. It's hard to explain it without spoiling it. So let me try to do my best. It's shocking to find out about a dark secret within the Catholic church. I don't know how much of this was real but I knew the end result was indeed real. This movie is admirable in so many ways and is indeed engrossing to watch, however, I find myself bored at times feeling something big should happen. It never does.  The movie goes back and forth between  the"Spotlight" team, the lawyers, and the victims. Sometimes I was sitting there feeling disturbed, other times I wanted it to hurry up. I felt mixed about this initially but after the movie was over I felt like it was something that was very deep. 
  The movie shows the "Spotlight" team as people just trying to do their jobs and actually feel concerned about the story that's going on. I like the fact that they don't glorify themselves but we see them for how reporters are. It also really shines a light on how dark the Catholic church can be or any religion for that matter. There is a sense of shame that they feel but they try so hard to cover it up using lawyers as a shield to protect themselves. It is indeed scary to know that they are this powerful and manipulative. I obviously don't think all priests or religions are involved in molestation but the possibility is something to ponder about. 
  The cast was very well assembled. Everyone's performance feels authentic and real. I mean they feel like actual people that I work with. I particularly liked Mark Ruffalo with his accent (It's hard for me to explain what kind that is) that seems to grow on you as the movie goes on. He even had a very emotional scene that made me really feel for the victims as for his reason for being upset.  This had a few nominations for supporting actor and actress and it's easy to see why. 
  This movie had a lot of nominations and acclaim behind it and it is indeed well directed, well acted, and well written. This is clearly a drama movie and I recommend it. The thing is that I couldn't get past its slow pace and its lack of ambition. Like I said before sometimes I felt uninterested and I felt like I wanted it to end already. There was a lot of info searching and running into walls that kept the movie bogged down. At the ending, I didn't feel the sense of closure or the bang that it should have had. After all the build up I feel like it deserved something more at the end. Post credits it tells you what happens and it's a bit shocking but still, they could have done a better job.
Well made and engaging.
Let me just gag out my minor complaint, before giving this the inevitable good rating: In this generation of television drama being on par with, sometimes topping, cinematic drama, cinema has become much more comfortable in tossing many names of barely seen characters casually, as if we can follow the happenings as quickly as the highly involved characters. Spotlight is a, er, spotlight example of this. Gag, gag, gag.

Ahem. Yes, this is a winner. Revolved around the uncovery of the magnitude of buried cases of priests molesting children, and how the Catholic Church tried to cover up hundreds upon hundreds of such cases through poorly run rehabilitation centers and bribery towards prosecutors, Spotlight is ripe for Oscar-baiting drama and performances. Director and co-screenwriter Tom McCarthy does tailor certain scenes for such, especially for Mark Ruffalo; I could never tell when his character's disgust and impatience were going to scream over his professional exterior, but every time affected me. However, McCarthy also proves he has a strong understanding of both the motives and the mistakes of some of our greatest journalists. Journalism is not simply a tool; it is a responsibility.
"If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one."

First things first, I understand that this review is pretty damn late. But what can I say? Just hadn't thought of watching this film until today. Don't know why.

Let me start off with the positives. Spotlight is a pretty great movie. There are some truly golden moments. Mark Ruffalo. Holy motherfucking shit that guy can act!!!! The guy exudes with hard-working passion that adds a lot to this character. Everyone did a fantastic job at acting, top marks to Stanley Tucci and Rachel Mccadams. Michael Keaton was good, but nothing too poignant.

I don't know if anyone else picked this up on their viewing, but there's a lot of references to candy and other childhood pleasures such as gifts and cake in this film that were presented with such a sickly vibe, it added to the constant cold atmosphere and the shame that resonates not just in each character, but the entirety of Boston at the time.

You can tell that the build up was going to be the release of the paper exposing these priests, but what really fascinates me is the attention to how much legal mumbo jumbo you need to process before getting to an appropriate stage in which 1. The Church won't destroy you and 2. Anyone will care. And this doesn't just come from long hours and neglecting love ones, there is a whole meaty segment on these victims who were portrayed beautifully. You felt like the actors had been through genuine trauma.

So what's not to like? The film is a drama, but the balancing of all the workers at 'Spotlight' meant that only Mark Ruffalo was given any platform to express himself. That was a little disappointing. The pacing in this film is drearily slow. The literal opposite of 'Time flies when you're having fun!'.

Nonetheless, Spotlight I recommend you check out (Although the majority of you already have I can assume. It is a cold film about the long complicated road of 'doing the right thing'.

B+

76/100
An extremely powerful movie that takes on an important story. Beautifully performed by all.
Just the actors bring the movie to life. Classic case of how sometimes and outsiders perspective is needed to change one's way of thinking.
It's hard not to feel both sad and angry watching this film.  The storyline is exceptionally well developed with a solid main cast.  Scene stealers were often those in roles as victim.  Script writing is thoughtful and thought-provoking.  The film stayed with me even after it ended.
Without a doubt one of the truly great Oscar winning movies and one of the best movies ever made about journalism.
I can definitely see why this one was the winner. Very reminiscent of All The President's Men.
Spotlight sin duda algunas es una de las mejores películas que se han hecho basadas en casos reales. La trama es excelente , el misterio , la intriga de lo que pueda llegar a pasar es algo que tiene esta película que no se compara con otras!
Memang pantas jadi Best Picture. Sinematografi memang standar tapi kelebihannya lebih banyak. Action, casting, dan tentunya screenplay lah yang bisa mengantarkan film ini ke podium. Isu sensitive yang berani diusung menjadi daya pendobraknya.
Perfect representation of journalism, and an all around great film.
This movie is another reminder of the importance of paying for a newspaper instead of relying free news sources.
Not without faults - while there are few - Spotlight captures the problem in Boston, and worldwide and without hesitation, due mostly to confident direction and a stellar cast. While personally 'Best Picture' seems a little too big for its boots, Spotlight should however be commended for the heft of its narrative and coping well with a delicate subject matter.
Verdict: A-
Extremely well acted and cleverly directed to keep the audience hooked 'til the last scene.
A movie that will not interest most, bore the rest & probably be uncomfortable for everyone in-between. Movies like this shouldn't be judged on their entertainment factor but more on their purpose & production/presentation especially when it comes to sensitive true story issues like this. Hell, most people didn't even know about this until seeing it in the running for an Oscar for Best Picture. Executed brilliantly with a magnificent cast it had my attention from start to finish.
I liked it Cardinal Law should be in jail
Mark Ruffalo gives one of the best performances I've ever seen on film.
If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one!
This film does shine light on a dark and disturbing problem, and has solid performances. But the direction was just so dry and unremarkable. I just couldn't get into it
Excellent movie-making.
Great movie. Exceptional investigative journalism.
The Boston Globe's special investigators track down the Catholic Church's cover-ups of allegations of priest sexual abuse.
Sparse and tense, Spotlight is a rather uncomplicated film about people doing their jobs well. Director Tom McCarthy must have studied All the President's Men because the same themes and terse narrative style reverberate in both films. 
Although Mark Ruffalo may have gotten the mannerisms and movements of his character down pat, there isn't a flashy or extraordinary performance; the actors, like the film, are just compellingly solid.
Overall, this film is a deserving winner for Best Picture even if it doesn't have the extraordinary sequences of The Revenant.
The real story was epic,but the movie isn't that good he didn't deserve the Oscar ! Overrated
Amazing all around from the cast to  the story.  Brilliant film with great performances and gripping partly because it's based on a true story.
fantastic movie about some of our darkest truths.
Great acting serious subject matter but boring in spots
Well done anti-religion propaganda.
Really brings to light how huge of a story the journalists had to put together for this to get national attention
Great movie. Started off slow but it picked up really nice and kept me at the edge of my seat.
It's easy to dismiss this tradgedy as old news, something we've all heard before and think we know. This movie helped me move past my safe, structured world view and see what humanity is capable of doing yo itself.  It's not something I hope to find too often in the coming future.
"Spotlight" tells the true story of when the The Boston Globe uncovered a scandal of priest molestation that reached up to the highest levels of the Catholic Church. With some hesitation, a small group of investigative reporters looked into reports of priests molesting children. With Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams and Michael Keaton, there are some great performances.
fantastic film was totally engrossed from start to finish
Good movie not great and certainly NOT THE BEST PICTURE.

It feels like a made-for-tv movie. Solid all around but doesn't excel anywhere.
Great film. I wasn't expecting to enjoy it as much as I did. It draws you in and keeps you involved.
A powerful film which benefits from superbly written screenplay, great acting, and masterful direction. Despite the immensely talented ensemble, Ruffalo stands out. Effectively treats a sensitive subject matter without the gratuitous bombast that generally characterizes Hollywood. Definitely a film for the ages.
No wonder the Oscars had their SPOTLIGHT on this film.
Brilliant all around!
Just a necessary movie. To see and to exist. Its also a documentary of how the press has an important role in our world.
This was a spectacular dramatization of the Catholic Church scandal, that ruined the lives of countless children, and shattered the faith of Catholics.  I mean these fuckers got away with this for decades.  As if rational people need anymore ammunition as to why religion being treated differently, given special favors within our laws.  This stake should have destroyed Catholics, but then slavery didn't destroy christians, so...
This powers the importance of information, it's simple and well done, I admired the investigative team dedication and determination, this is an important movie to watch anytime you think you're losing faith, this art honors journalism.. as a Pulitzer prize would do, and even more.
this movie was awesome, I'm glad it won the oscar for best movie. I recommend it to everyone
When journalists investigate the crimes and tell everybody the truth.
A film that  truly excels in all frontiers which is truly heartwarming and inspiring as well as gritty.
Esta pelicula fue interesante. 
Batman, el Chapo, y un grupo de periodistas investigan el que se volveria el escandalo mas importante de nuestros tiempos: El abuso sexuald e sacerdotes a menores de edad. Quizas lo mas triste de la historia, aparte de los testimonios desgarradores, es la sociedad misma, tratando de racionalizar y hacer de lado el abuso sistematico, simplemente porque es su religion, y ven a la organizacion como una especie de monolito social, que debe ser mantenido impecable e inalcanzable a toda critica. 

...pero lo que realmente me entristecio, fue el razonamiento que dio un sacerdote: "No sentia placer manoseando esos niños, asi que no era violacion" ._.X
At times the names are confusing but that doesn't render the whole movie hard to comprehend as it has a cohesive storyline which is easy for its viewers to understand.
Although the question and criticism that the film brings is very important, the way the story is told, it is very common if the script was not good, most of the public would sleep in the middle of the film has no soundtrack, no It has photo or any twist of the director, is a common film, with medians performances for good, and a good and interesting script, as the big bet brings the universe of financial market Spotlight brings the world of investigative journalism market and is an intriguing movie.

Best 20I6 movie? Oscar is slutty.
Really good movie; but I feel reviews for movies of this subject matter will always get better reviews than the movie deserves . Ehhhh it probably almost deserves those great ratings . Best picture maybe not.
Amazingly well-acted and filmed.
Exceptional drama that digs into a tragic scandal with grace and passion and brings us face-to-face with harsh realities in an very riveting way.
Riveting. Disturbing. Frightening. Beautifully acted and easily one the top movies in its genre. Should be viewed by everyone, but especially aspiring journalists.
"If it takes a village to raise a child, it take a village to abuse one."
Good investigative film. Worth watching though not more than once ...
it was good but they severley misused Mark rufalo and micheal keaton
Deeply sad but such a good flick.
A well-balanced real-life drama on what happened before the first huge exposé of the Catholic Church's major scandal, this is a must watch for fellow Catholics around the globe. It is amazing how the Boston reporters managed to prepare their report under wrap of secrecy in 2001, and maintained their focus even when the need to report on the 9/11 attack nearly eclipsed the significance of their reporting.

And before you try to dismiss this film as anti-Catholic, L'Osservatore Romano (the official Vatican newspaper) has officially endorsed this film as factual and not an anti-Catholic one as many had feared. So please, watch it.
My favorite film of 2015.
Good but Rufallo makes it. Infinitely polar bear is a must too. Mad men guy is good too he can perform on the big screen.
Spotlight should have been a documentary because it does not play like your typical film. There is so much exposition; and that's about it. It's a film that explains how the Catholic church got away with abuse. There are no real characters in this movie. It is well acted, but I don't know anything more about who these people are other then what they tell us about where to look next, who to check out, etc. The subject matter is interesting, but engaging it definitely is not. It's a bore.
Avoided seeing because thought the subject would just bee too much, but the story is really about the reporting/reporters more than the abuse. An excellent film start to finish.
Winner of the Best Picture 2015, Spotlight is a meaningful and well-crafted movie centered on the work of four reporters in uncovering one of the biggest scandals of the 21st century - child abuse of more than 100 priests over the last few decades, under challenges brought by the Church and the world's shifted attention due to the 911 attacks. Based on a true story about the Boston Globe's Spotlight team, the film manages to place real-life events as first priority and supports the narration with an incredible cast and well-timed score. It manages to balance all the aspects and delivers the desired effect - arousing the audience's admiration to the endeavors of reporters and public media.

People talked about Spotlight as a very well casted movie, and you would sure acknowledge that fact when you watch it. Mark Ruffalo and Richard McAdams are the ones I love the most. They showed that they know the role and has all it takes to act. But more importantly the director did not take their acting prowess for granted, as he refuses to put all of the lead characters in front of the narration. Besides, at the end of the movie its all about ordinary people shocked by the headlines on Boston Globe and phone calls coming in successively in the Boston Globe's headquaters, while all the "heroes" are all just standing there musing at the scene, deeply affected by the fruition of their hard work. Even though the characters are progressively developing throughout the film, it is left for the viewers themselves to give applause to the Spotlight team, rather than having onscreen characters to clap for them. The control of the film is laudable, as it focuses on the right things so to not mess up the tone and feel, and that is what I believe to be its key to critical success.

I might not be a huge fan for these types of movies, but I do felt a lot upon viewing this Best Picture winner. Some films are made to procure the audience with a indepth understanding of our society, and here in Spotlight, we learn that sometimes the law is vulnerable to greater forces that are not often noticed by the common people yet can do whatever unjust things they want, and that is when the media as to intervene. We honor the Spotlight team for their work in 2002 and all the other reporters that might not shine as brightly as they did, but are still furtively doing their job in maintaining a fair, transparent society. This movie is a clear Oscar-bait, and at the end of the day it is truly a meaningful cinematic experience to stick with at bed.

Rating: 8/10
The movie deserves an Oscar just for the story with it being told right -oh wait it received two already (Best Picture & "original story")
Clearly one of the best movies of the year. A gripping true story,a rich cast,and top notch performances. But if I'm going to be honest,there were moments where I was board but they're were rather small moments
The story is interesting, but it is nothing new. Not to say that the story is not worth telling, or that it is not important. It is just that it seems the film came out a little late, which is ironic because the film is about a story that came out a little late. I feel the impact that the film could have had is missed by it being released now. It is a good film, but it is a safe film at the point. Nothing controversial or provocative.
When I sat down in my seat for my final flight to get to Belgium, I was greeted by the familiar screen in front of me that provides a sizable selection of movies for the flight over the Atlantic Ocean. When I saw the Academy Award-winning movie Spotlight on that list, I was ecstatic to say the least. So, I watched the film for the first time amidst the loud sound of the jet engines behind me. Admittedly, as a Catholic, I was a little nervous about the way this movie would portray the Church that I'm a part of. However, after watching Spotlight, I eventually realized that the film's willingness and ability to handle a topic that other filmmakers would consider taboo was one of its biggest strengths. Spotlight benefits from handling its subject material skillfully, conveying the events that it documents objectively, fully, and without offending anyone. This might suggest that the film borders on the line of a documentary rather than a drama, since a documentary is the safest way to convey facts without bias. This is far from the case, as a very real drama results from director Tom McCarthy's ability to handle the story. And everything about this drama is perfect, and that starts with the acting. Everything good about this movie owes something to the incredibly talented ensemble cast used to portray the real-life reporters of the Boston Globe. Michael Keaton is golden in the role of Walter Robinson, and he does a superb job in conveying the man's devotion to finding the truth and to publish the story. Rachel McAdams also stood out as Sacha Pfeiffer, an at-times emotionally conflicted reporter on the Spotlight team who shares in her bosses devotion to discovering the truth. However, Mark Ruffalo proves that HE is the star in this movie through his awe-inspiring performance as Mike Rezendes. Ruffalo takes command of his role with gusto and passion that he welds into every scene he is in. Even though I'm happy with DiCaprio's reception of the Best Actor Oscar, I would've been equally proud to see Ruffalo take the award, because he definitely earned it. And one of the amazing things about these performances is the way the writing and screenplay develops their characters, without taking focus away from the story at hand. Which is another thing the movie excels at: focus. Every little bit of dialogue, every scene, and every part of the screenplay adds to the characters or drama, but never takes away from the plot. In summary, Spotlight unfortunately reminds audiences of a poor time in the Catholic Church's history. But with that aside, it is an incredible showcase of acting talent and storytelling, one that I hope directors will be able to emulate in the future.
such a good film great acting and very eye opening. the story could not have been told any better then the film portrayed it and they did it with class and integrity. really liked the film definitely would recommend this film.
This movie takes you by the collar and drags you through a pit of mud--forcing you to see the ugly truth. Tom McCarthy the director of spotlight chooses to tell this story with an air of authenticity--nothing is sensationalised. The audience is equally invested in the telling of the decade long cover up by the end. The team of journalists are worked to their core, and gripped by their haunting discoveries. This movie much like the investigation itself conducted in 2001 by the Boston Globe is uncomfortable-- to say the least. It questions an institution that lies at the very core of our society today. Describing this discovery as shocking is a gross understatement--it is more of a betrayal. The movie is very much a crescendo as the clues come together and the audience along with the team of journalists ( Mark Rezendes, Robby, Sacha Pfeiffer, and Matt Carroll) begin to piece together a puzzle hidden in secrecy and fear. The harrowing accounts of victims leave us indignant, hurt, and disbelieving-- as they look into the eyes of their interviewers and say "how do you say no to god." reminding us of the maliciousness of the "system" as Marty Baron keeps stressing. 

The actors in this movie do a wonderful job with mimicking the emotions that grip the audience as they too realize the horrific facts. This resulting in Mark Ruffalo's a.k.a Mark Resendez' breaking point. A melt down is only necessary in this film---it's what gives it emotion leading the audience to feel something. every performance throughout the movie whether it be a major or minor character screams for empathy. Spotlight has been nominated for 6 academy awards of which three are dedicated solely to the cast. Each journalist plays their own role and brings a unique perspective for the story. Mark Resendez makes his mark as the eager, truth driven writer desperate to tell the story that has consumed his life. Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) comes off as the warm interviewer who is able to reach out to the victims willing to share their horrific experiences; and then Matt Carroll( Brian D'arcy James)--  the family man who finds out that he lives only blocks away from an identified child molester. This film is very much influenced by the idea of racing against time--this in terms of getting the story published and written before any other newspaper, while also exposing corrupt priests as quickly as possible. Finally Robby (Michael Keaton) also plays into the concept of time by making the team wait until they can deliver the story right. He is the fearless leader and editor of the group serving as a glue of sorts--keeping the unique personalities of the team on the same page, (he also stars in Birdman--another terrific role).

There is one quote that stands out very sharply in this film, that being "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one" the story went down in history because of its sheer size and elaborate scheme to keep victims silent. While spotlight and the investigation itself aren't an attack on the catholic church per say they are a tribute to the corrupt nature of any institution--even those we deem holy. It builds a deep appreciation for journalists without putting them on pedestals in fact acknowledging their flaws--by repeatedly pointing out that the boston globe had ignored previous allegations of sexual abuse by priests. While this fact-based thriller is a slap in the face it is definitely a must see.

Grade:A
Spotlight handles a very serious topic/case and makes it an appealing movie for everyone.
Michael Keaton on the rebound, but completely overshadowed by incredible performances by Mr. Ruffalo and Mrs. McAdams.  I learned, I felt.  Good shit.
Arguably worthy of truly deserving its 2015 Best Picture definitive label as it's a mesmerizing triumph on how the cinema done prolific storytelling and how much effort was put into it in the screenplay and the performances by the excellent cast through a seemingly complex web being kept in line during the whole process. (A)

(Full review TBD)
Spotlight is a film that will simply floor you. Everything from the directing, acting, cinematography, script, etc etc is just about perfect. This is truly one of the best ensemble casts I've ever seen in film. Everyone in this movie gave an Oscar worthy peformance. This movie also doesn't delve into the clichÃ©s that films like this typically do. If you can handle the subject matter I higly recommend Spotlight. Just be prepared for an emotional roller-coaster that will make you angry and disgusted, yet inspired
A compelling story made into a great movie, perfectly illustrating the ins and outs of hardcore journalism.
Spotlight is an engaging true story that strings the viewer along in the investigation it's great ensemble cast in neck deep in. I'm not sure I would deem this film the best of the year, but it's certainly in the top five as it tells a story worth being told.
From an outsiders point of view - a very good representation of the story. Makes the topic interesting for the viewer while also getting through all of the necessary facts needed to understand. Found myself awake throughout the entirety of the film and thoroughly enjoyed the end result.
A great movie that dives into an incredible moment in history. With great acting by the entire cast and an incredibly believable set of actors, the story drags someone into it. A movie that will leave you in awe as it rolls the credits.
Wow ! Was hanging on by every word! Amazing movie! Great to see the emotions & realism.
"Spotlight" is the compelling story of the Pulitzer prize-winning team of Boston Globe journalists, who early in 2002, lifted the lid on a clerical abuse epidemic in the Boston archdiocese.
Nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture  8/10 Rev 327
Revealed one case... can safe the world
Fantastic film on a horrible subject.
Spotlight hauntingly captures its audience with a story that is still a sensitive yet underrated topic today.
Ersatz 'All The President's Men'. Worthy if a little hollow.  Ruffalo and Schrieber   pretty hammy playing things up as Robards and Hoffman but Keaton a revelation in a central character role and Rachel Macadams is becoming the most interesting actor around. Tucci is Tucci....always worth the ticket. Good not great,
d
My name is Brian Galyean...I was SO thrilled that this movie was written and told...even winning the Oscar for best film last year!!! WONDERFUL!!! I am a survivor of sexual abuse within the catholic church. I was abused by 3 priests when I was 13....Msgr James J Reilly, and two Jesuits, Fr Pat Koch, and Fr Ben Smiley..all of Dallas...I won my lawsuit against all 3 and it felt amazing to NO LONGER BE SILENT!!!! 30 years I was quiet and lived a lie to my family and friends...During my lawsuit I learned how many kids before be who committed suicide because they were quiet...lived in fear...I now made a foundation called BE LOUD which helps kids feel confident and to speak up....Much love to all of you who worked on this film...THANK YOU for putting the story out there! :) xoxox
You don't have to be a news junky to fall head-over-heels in love with "Spotlight,"...but it helps.
Serious and harrowing, Spotlight is a film where you could be forgiven for thinking not a lot is happening, and yet just like the material it covers, you scratch the surface and you find something a lot deeper. Voted best picture of the last year, it's an essential watch, a very brave piece of film making, and perhaps the best performance I've seen from Mark Ruffalo. 

The thing that sticks with me even now, as I write while the credits roll is the final shot of the movie,  no not of Michael Keaton, but the list. Watch Spotlight and you will see just what I mean.

Spotlight is controversial, brave and thought provoking. While it may not be my favourite film of 2015, I can see why it won best picture, it is pushing boundaries and showing things most others wouldn't touch. Surely just like reporting, that is what cinema is all about.
Lo mejor de la película pasó fuera de cámaras. El Oscar le amargó la noche al Vaticano, fuera de eso, no es la novena maravilla que quieren hacernos creer.
Without a shadow of a doubt, this is the best movie of 2015, astonishing directing and acting makes this movie a masterpiece, despite the fact is dealing with a really serious subject that would have been boring for some audiences  the director and the writers manage themselves to bring an excelent pacing keeping it interesting with no slow moments. they capture the  best of this actors with charismatic portrayals and amazing chemistry between them. Mark Ruffalo once again proves that He is worthy of an Academy Award, I felt  He was the best of the cast, always bringing layers on whatever part he is in. 5/5 to this amazing movie, that took the courage to manage this sensitive matter.
www.milsteadonmovies.co.uk
This movie is really well done! Everything was top notch.  They definitely do not lionize the journalists in this movie.
Great story and a thrill to watch. But, where is the adversary, the resistance? It´s there but it´s too well hidden between the lines. And why is Ruffalo doing tooo much out of his role, it really dont feel real.
This was a good movie. I think I would have liked to see more of the victims issues, and the systemic issues of the Catholic Church brought to to forefront, and why the Boston Globe sat in the info they had for at least 5 years before actually getting the news out there. Not sure this why this was an Oscar winner.
Plane movie #5: Well-acted and crafted.
A true story that you simply just have to watch.
Damn good movie from acting to script to editing, but more than that-its an important film to watch. As a Catholic I can say I was horrified to find out what was going on with pedophiles disguised as priests in the Catholic community. I was even more horrified when I saw a documentary about how the church knew and protected monsters versus victims. Like Richard Snipes said its the institution not Catholicism itself that caused this mess. I would like to see more done from the pope but I believe we are headed in the right direction. You should watch this if your Catholic but even if you're not because this film highlights the worst of our rape society today. This is part of the discussion that is so relevant and what we need to have more of today. Also loved how movies puts the spotlight (lol) on the bravery and under-appreciated work of many journalists. Bravo!
Excellent movie. Superb cast. Didn't lose my attention one time.
this made me think of church that need to rectify there things and it made me electrified
Spotlight is directed by Tom McCarthy, and stars Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, Billy Crudup, and many more. The film is about several scandals surrounding Catholic priests, who have molested children within the Church. From the very first seen, audiences can feel the sadness and quietness of the community, and how it reflects the world's initial reaction to this. From the incredible performances from a powerhouse cast, brilliant direction, and superb writing Spotlight is a terrific motion picture. Every bit of screen time matters, and the dramatic elements draw you into the film. It was highly deserving of best picture(at the Oscars), and is a must see.
Puede resultar un poco pesado seguir la trama al principio, pero a medida que  las sólidas actuaciones del reparto empiezan a contagiarle a uno la sed de dar a conocer una verdad indignante, la película cobra una fuerza inusual que aporta mucho que reflexionar al espectador.
Spotlight succeeds due to its riveting story and the performances of its actors, all carefully crafted in one of the best written and directed film in 2015 by Tom McCarthy, shining light on a subject people need to know about.
I was gripped by this film. Absolutely fascinating, disturbing and satisfying.
Fabulous film, destined to be my No. 1 of 2016. Old-fashioned procedural thriller on a worthy topic of the church's shame. Let's not get waylaid by backstory or romantic threads, lets just focus on the drama. Wow how refreshing. Let's have an A' list cast work together, rather than trying to out-act one another - doubly refreshing. Let's basically plug away with the investigation, and never dumb it down or over-emotionalise it for the audience. A superb movie.

A worthy Oscar winner, who would have thought it.
This film opens a well known can of worms that has been covered up but the Catholic Churches for decades. Great work by the Boston Globe 'Spotlight' team. You allowed victim's voices to heard.
Excellent job by director Tom McCarthy and the ensemble of top notch actors.  They portray the real life efforts of truly dedicated journalist in search for the truth, even if it means fighting a powerful institution.
/B/ Very intriguing and still hard to believe story. The movie loses some points because there really is no connection that the audience can make with the main characters. The reporters are really just used as a medium to tell the story.
Sad but true.  Compelling look at what went on. Riveting.
Aside from a slow beginning and one too many tracking shots for comfort, Spotlight is an exceptionally well-written and acted retelling of the yearlong investigation into the Roman Catholic Church's systemic coverup of child abuse.
One of the best films I have ever seen, along with 12 angry men, cool hand Luke, The ninth configuration, just great.
This was definitely an eye-opening story. There is a great wealth of information here, not only about this abuse of power in the Catholic Church, but also the process for gathering information before it is ever presented to the public.
Another great movie! Very sad that this was based on a true story. How I wish it were made up.
Excellent movie, powerful story and acting
the story is good, but is the new definition of the word boring.
Superbe enquete sur des faits reels concernant la pedophilie de pretres catholiques. 6 nominations aux Oscars.
Great acting and careful story telling of (still) an important topic.  The only thing that may have been made even clearer is the communal pressure these journalists had to feel when taking on the Catholic Church.
Review:
Although I found the subject matter touching and pretty upsetting at times, and all of the actors put in a great performance, from an entertainment point of view, it seemed more like a documentary than a cinematic extravaganza, and I really wanted to see the priest's get punished for all of there nasty acts. I'm glad that the director used top actors to portray such a touching story, about a group of journalist, who work for the Boston Globe, and go to extreme lengths to undercover the terrible true story about priest who rape young kids. The fact that the important documents were hidden away, was truly disgusting, and the poor victims, who were mostly damaged for life, also touched me. You do have to be in the right mood to watch this film because it is very one toned and it is one of those movies that will leave you feeling angry and pretty emotional. As for the performances, all of the actors gave this delicate subject, there all, and it shows journalist in a different light, by proving that they also can do good without uncovering a scoop, just for profit. Personally, I don't think that it's one of those films that you can watch time and time again but it's still a well made movie, which brings an untold story to light. Enjoyable!

Round-Up:
I'm not sure that this film deserved a Best Picture Academy Award, especially with Mad Max and the Revenant in the same category but you can't fault the film for emotion, and the script is well written. Personally I don't think that it needed to be 2 hours long and I did find some of the scenes repetitive but with that aside, it's still one to watch and it's great to see Keaton back on top form. The movie was directed and written by Tom McCarthy, 49, who also brought you the Station Agent, The Visitor, Win Win and the disappointing, the Cobbler, so this movie was a complete change of directed for the actor/director, who recently starred in Pixels with Adam Sandler. He was brave to make a movie about a subject matter which has been kept under the radar for some time, and I'm sure that there are still people out there that won't accept the truth but I personally think that there was room for Tom to go deeper, from the punishment perspective. Its still a decent film which deserved recognition but I did see better films in 2015/2016.

Budget: $20million
Worldwide Gross: $88.3million

I recommend this movie to people who are into their biography/history/dramas starring Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Stanley Tucci, Billy Crudup, Elena Wohl and Brian D'Arcy James. 6/10
Excellent true story about the Boston Globe's investigation of the sex abuse scandal among Catholic priests.
'Spotlight' appropriately honours the commitment and success of investigative journalism but lacked the showings of heated confrontation between the press and the Catholic Church which would have helped spice up the film's flat approach.
Meh! It was OK. The topic was interesting, the cast was great, but I thought it was about 30 mins too long. The dialogue is OK, but it was REALLY interesting to see how far & wide the cover up (and the incidences) reached. Didn't hate it, but didn't love it. It was OK. I confess, it lost me at times....
Powerful stuff.  Great performances.  Recommended.
Que filme foda....todos católicos deveriam assistir esse filme. Ia ser de muita utilidade para dar uma visão diferente da igreja que estão acostumados.
Muy buena pelicula, una gran historia y con grandes actuaciones, en verdad que me encanto como fue contada y el tema a tratar muy polemico
Brilliantly acted, directed, shot and cut, this is a top-notch film.
A good film but this was just a rehash of All the President's Men using a different topic. Resistance to publishing a controversial story is basically all this film is about. Fairly well made but not wildly emotionally involving. Just a plain facts based film. Even if 2015 was a poor year for films, there were far more worthy winners of best picture.
Really can't see the Oscar for best picture here....
A brilliant film following the investigative journalism carried out by the Boston Globe's spotlight team to uncover a cover-up by the Catholic Church.  Most films of this nature can go one of 2 ways, they either present us with scenes of tremendous heart break to pull at the heart strings of the audience or it can be a very dry, slow paced investigative feature full of cliches (usually at some point the lead investigator would be fired for their maverick actions and then save the day in their own time).  Luckily this is neither, the film treats it's audience with respect and intelligence.  The writing and the performances pull you into the investigation and keeps you hooked at every turn and setback as this small group of journalists fight to reveal the truth.  The cast is spot on and no actor hogs the limelight, each performance compliments the others in the film.  Well worth seeing.
I had high hopes for this movie, but it bored the gourd outta me!
Talented indie-filmmaker Tom McCarthy (The visitor, Win/Win) anchors a remarkable cast through an even more remarkable -- and not in a good way --  true story. "Spotlight", is simply the most important film of 2015.
"Spotlight" deals with its serious subject matter with sensitivity and precision by focusing on the facts and trueness of its real life story that pleases the audience with fascination.
Spotlight is a fantastic ensemble film that tells the deeply depressing story of the Boston Globe uncovering years of sexual abuse by Catholic priests in Boston and the subsequent cover ups by the church and local community. It is an important film that shines a light on a topic that is difficult to examine for many reasons. The film's plot moves along at a brisk rate and is equal parts fascinating and depressing. The acting is spot-on with great performances by all involved and the direction is great. All in all it is a film that is both worthy of the praise and attention it received.
A movie with a very strong message! A must see for grown-ups if you're interested in battles against social crime
Spotlight is basically a cinematic recreation of The Globe's attack on the Catholic Church on the grounds of the many child molestations and even child killings committed by priests.  That's the movie in a nutshell.  It's the crew of The Globe known as Spotlight going around uncovering this mystery that the Catholic Church had kept under wraps for so long to publish their incriminating article to bring it all to light.
If that is your kind of movie you should enjoy it, but if not than this isn't for you.  These real event inspired movies are a mixed bag for me.  Sometimes I find the story quite interesting, while other times I find myself extremely bored.  Thankfully, the former proves true for Spotlight.
I found the story and how it all played out intriguing.  The cast was also great as was the acting.  Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton especially were amazing.  I've always been a fan of Ruffalo and have like every movie I've seen him in and he did not disappoint here either.
Overall, Spotlight is a masterful film.  It's not for everyone, but for what it was trying to do it delivered it flawlessly.  I did not know much of how the real event played out so I don't know how accurate this is, but for a movie it worked fine.  Did it deserve to win best picture? I don't know, but it's a great movie nonetheless.
Excellence in journalism and the very best of relatable acting collide in Spotlight, an extended yet engrossing examination of a news team's search for the truth.

Spotlight takes place in Boston, Massachusetts and recounts the revelations surrounding the systematic child abuse of Catholic Church priests in 2001. The titular branch of The Boston Globe handled the big news story over many painstaking months, which was comprised of Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) and Matt Carrol (Brian d'Arcy James) along with the support of editors Martin Baron (Live Schreiber) and Ben Bradlee Jr (John Slattery). Their combined efforts uncovered a widespread and shameful level of paedophilia that went by seemingly unnoticed by both the law and those who attended the church. Every last detail from the original story has been packaged and composited into the film, emphasising the amount of work and difficulty the team went through. The narrative flashes between the different characters and their individual efforts in the story;  the events are relatively complex, but as the investigation progresses onwards, you'll find yourself invested as more and more drastic measures and facts come to light.

With a realistic setting locked down, the characterisation has been designed to slot into it seamlessly. The members of Spotlight may not be especially varied, but they all share a common determination and camaraderie which makes the audience root for them. Their reactions to the revelations are all very natural, but of all the main characters, I think Mark Ruffalo has the most emotion to convey and he gets it all across superbly, particularly the sheer frustration of how such widespread corruption went by unchecked for decades. The film is never overzealous with the way it presents the characters; they're all common everyday people who happen to be on the cusp of something immense. The emotions conveyed here are all fully realised and feasible with no additional side stories getting in the way of the plot. Even the side characters, such as the members of law who support the investigation are well acted, not to mention the victims of abuse who powerfully convey the trauma from their childhoods. It's all incredibly authentic, making the film's portrayal of the investigation even more detailed and memorable.

Spotlight is a truly mesmerising and often shocking account on one of the biggest scandals ever to be uncovered by journalistic investigation. The plot is intent and unwavering in the way it presents its story and the characters are both well portrayed and relatable. If you happen to be involved in the profession of journalism, it's an absolute must see; for everyone else it's simply another fantastically well-made drama based on a true story.
I was gutted to have missed this at its original UK release back in January, especially when it received some attention at this year's Academy Awards winning two oscars, Best Picture and Best Screenplay, and nominated for four others I really wanted to see this. So, a bit of a throwback Thursday I fortunately managed to catch a silver screening at my local. 

I knew this film was going to be good but didn't know it was going to be that good. The film is about the Spotlight journalists writing for the Boston Globe at the turn of the millennium, before, and after 9/11. A tight team of thorough investigators that chase controversy and when new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) takes the helm, he politely, yet assertively tasks the team to do a follow up story on the Catholic child molestation scandal that seems to be swept under the rug. 

It's a great portrayal of corruption and how it seeps into everywhere, especially where some can make a gain and how a whole population can turn a blind eye and pretend nothing is happening. It displays social responsibility, honesty, guilt and torment as you follow the paper trail spanning what I think is two years long. 

Tom McCarthy directs and does an amazing job of recreating a quiet monster, a battle of office forces that reminded me of Michael Mann's The Insider (1999) and Alan J. Pakula's All The Presidents Men. (1976) I loved McCarthy film, The Visitor (2007) with Richards Jenkins, who I think provides a voice for this film, and McCarthy gives that same gracefulness, realism and subtly in his filmmaking. 

It's an incredible cast with Michael Keaton at the lead, who, spent time with the real Walter Robinson and researched him prior to meeting him. Walter Robinson reporting on several occasions that Keaton does a true and scary account of himself; which is a shame for the general audience such as myself because most of us don't know how Walter 'Robby' Robinson behaves so it's difficult to judge Keaton's acting. It's good nonetheless. 

You can see why Mark Ruffalo got Oscar nominated for his role as abrasive, passionate and frustrated Mike Rezendes, but I can now also understand why the Oscar went to Mark Rylance for Bridge of Spies. That awkward moment when your first name is called at the awards but it's the other Mark. Still, Ruffalo gives a great performance and deserves all the credit, and pizza. 

Not sure about Rachel McAdams; she's does great, don't get me wrong but I didn't think it was worthy of the Oscar nomination unlike Ruffalo's. Tony Stark's Dad, John Slattery and Stanley Tucci play great charismatic parts as does CSI's Paul Guilfoyle and Watchman, Dr. Manhattan Eric Crudup. Liev Schreiber has always been one of my favourite co-stars and he quietly makes his presence known even among all the drama and shouting. He almost sounds like Dustin Hoffman. 

The film is a superb testament to good, honest reporting and shows us that truth and power is controlled by the people sitting on high and depends solely on how good and true those people are if something is to be done. The meek will inherit the Earth. I can see fans of Money Ball and The Big Short taking to this film greatly, films about people who take on the system and win, a true 'David and Goliath' of a story. 

Running Time: 9
The Cast: 10
Performance: 10
Direction: 9
Story: 10
Script: 9
Creativity: 9
Soundtrack: 8
Job Description: 10
The Extra Bonus Points: 10 for a brilliant masterpiece, great storytelling and a superb cast performance. 

94% 9/10

Twitter: SpoilerAlertRV
In my opinion this is one of the best drama movies ever made. You follow the Golden Globe reporters as they uncover an unspeakable truth about the most trusted form of beliefs. Spotlight was able to tell an unbelievable story, while still keeping the truth as the main subject. You are able to feel for every character within the first few minutes of the film. Spotlight is definitely a Fresh movie.
GREAT film!  A definite must see!
It's an incredible story and an incredible movie.  Not many movies can do this, and I don't think one has since I first watched "The Departed," but this movie held my attention from start to finish.  I can see now why this won an Academy Award in 2015.
S'il vous reste encore un minimum de foi en l'église catholique, ce film va l'anéantir :)
Fantastic cast! I watched this movie some days before Oscar and I was sure that it would have won best movie award! I loved screenplay by Coen's!
This is a hard film to rate for me. Because I thought the acting was amazing and the story was very interesting! But, I did find a lot of this film very booooorrrrriiiiinnnnggggg.  So overall I can only rate it good.
Socially important film but it's kind of a chore to get through.
Great movie, great acting. Hits home having lived in Boston for so many years. Def have no interest in going to church after this!
This is a tough one, folks. By all accounts, this should be a great film. The casting is solid, the story is well directed, the premise is a compelling one, and the respect for the events it was based on is very admirable. Unfortunately, what it achieves in attention to detail and realism it loses in any creative spark. There was no narrative thrust; just scenes playing out in a particular order without any true emotion guiding them. This can potentially alienate the viewers as they won't have anyone to relate to and follow throughout the movie. The only actor who truly stands out here, and whom audiences may find relatable, is Mark Ruffalo as Michael Rezendes, who brings a much needed passion to the role. On one hand, perhaps if the other reporters were better defined characters or if the individual victims were given more attention, there'd be some emotional crutch to latch onto. On the other hand, this could have come across as focusing too on the wrong people with the reporters or becoming too exploitive with the victims. This is not a bad film by any means. However, there's certainly a missed opportunity here and at over two hours, viewers will certainly feel its length.
A brave, interesting and thoughtful drama. Could not look away, it had me from the first minute.
Spotlight is a Masterpiece. Based on a true and factual story of a team of investigative journalists from The Boston Globe who exposed the Catholic Church's cover up of clergy pedophilia that shocked the city, the nation, and the world, the compelling and brilliant screenplay is sublime, yet gripping. Combined with excellent directing, crisp editing and a stellar cast, it's no wonder that Spotlight bagged the Academy Award for Best Picture.  A refreshing change from the CGI steroid charged films. A fitting tribute to journalists around the world who take so much personal and professional risks to speak truth to institutional power. A MUST WATCH.
A Masterpiece! Based on a true story of a team of investigative journalists from The Boston Globe who exposed the cover-up by the Catholic Church of the rampant pedophilia that shocked the city, nation and the world, the brilliant screenplay keeps you at the edge of your seats. This well crafted story is the work of sublime genius, and is a well-deserved tribute to journalists who dare to tell the truth. Even without CGI gimmicks or car chases, the story is intense and gripping. Thanks to great direction and a stellar cast, it's no wonder this film was awarded Best Picture at the Academy Awards. A MUST WATCH.
That's why my son isn't going to be religious ....
Pretty powerful, well told story with a high profile cast working at their best.
Very predictable, but still engaging movie that proved the only way to convince the masses of something is by putting it in the place the masses listen to
3.5/5 If you liked All the President's Men, you'll probably like this.  I didn't think it was anything amazing or original though, it was pretty straightforward, everything as you would expect.  My biggest issue is the score/music.  Its terrible and nearly ruins the movie for me.  This lame repetitive piano tune with some cheesy 80s-ish music mixed in from time to time.  Awful.  Other than that this is worth seeing.  Its just not "best picture" good, IMO.
Brilliantly executed. When one thinks about it calmly, the story is a regular tale of investigative journalism. While the topic was big, the research team had most facts readily available, without any violent opposition, even sans internal opposition/treachery or any other type of drama. Yet, the movie clicks for the way it tells the story rather than the big story or even its revelation.
Solid cast, j just feel the story only touched the edge of the investigation.
For this was made the film industry. Through a excellent cast that represent a heartbreaking story, emerges to stay in movie history. Mccarthy gives us a jewel of movie and shows the importance of journalists.
Someone is right, This did win best picture,
I'm surprised of how a group of business men come up with an idea of Devoting the church, And with all the Realism and Prices of every paper based on the church, They search for priests and give people examples on why the priest forgives the men and not the children in, Overall: I love this film for all 2 hrs. and 9 mins. when on the cover of the DVD when my mother brought it say 1 hr. and 35 min. It feels a lot shorter for some reason because i payed attention to this movie as far as possible and try not to get bored because i wasn't, Bad Movies are Bad But This is one of the movies that brightened my day.

Score: 9.5/10
Spotlight is the kind of brutally honest film that truly shows the best that the medium has to offer. This is not a visually impressive film that thinks it has to rely on camera tricks or visual effects to complement its story. This is not a film that has to rely on overly sentimental moments to convey this story. Outside of some very specific scenes, this is not a film that finds a need to devolve into explosive performances to make sure the audience knows a scene is important, and the few times it does, they feel completely natural. Rather than succumbing to these techniques of filmmaking, Tom McCarthy has crafted a subdued slow-burn drama whose unflinching honesty hits you like a punch in the gut. The ensemble here is phenomenal: Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Mark Ruffalo, and Liev Schreiber all give some of the finest performances of their respective careers while being completely subtle, and ultimately transcending the film and truly embodying their characters. It's a shocking, emotional, impactful roller coaster of a film, and certainly deserving of its Best Picture award.
Anyone seen this movie?  Watched it last night.  Wow!  Powerful and disturbing.  The dangers and shortcomings of organized religion.
"Spotlight" was destined to be one of the most controversial movies of 2015, but definitely also one of the most successful. The characters in the movie are definitely the strong part and all the actors and actresses deliver strong and believable performances that are to be remembered. Mark Ruffalo, however, steals the show and he makes us all forget that he is also the man who plays a big green monster in a completely different franchise. He is surrounded by strong secondary players like Michael Keaton and Stanley Tucci who also show their great range. However, the movie falters when it comes to the entertainment value and ultimately fails in making a great and compelling story because of its constant attempt to remind people that this is still something that happens today. Don't get me wrong, I understand the importance of the message, but when a movie constantly hits you over the head with references of today's problems, it just ends up being too much and that's why I felt the urge to walk away from the movie multiple times. This is a good movie, but it could have been much better than it ended up being.
Very powerful and eye opening. Have always known about the subject, but never knew the depth of the Vatican's cover-up.
Good movie, but this is not better than "Mad Max", I love the story, the plot is good, this is how Journalism movies should be, but, Best movie?, no! i don't think so
Great....just great. Brings many injustices to light.
While not as visually stunning as the Revenant or as fun as Mad Max, I can totally see why this movie took home Best Picture. Very well done. It's crazy that Michael Keaton anchored back to back Best Pictures. He's a legend.
Another story that needed to be told. It's a sad story about corruption and cover-ups. But it's a story about how some people won't stop until the truth is told and out for everyone to see, as it should be. I'm proud that there are people in the media that seek the truth and have everyone's best interest at heart.
Extremely well told story. Easy to see how is won Best Picture this year.
This one's definitely a must-see.
?????????????????????????????
spotlight shows the actions of reporters uncovering a story that revealed the priests and their abuse of children. granted it's a good story and the movie does a great job at unveiling everything when it needs to but I didn't feel it worthy of the award it got. the directing is bland, the actors did great and the story were the only thing going for it. I get its inspired by what actually happened but stop making movies that are somewhat documentaries into something more then they actually are.
Spotlight is everything that summer blockbusters are not; a film depending solely on the story and the execution of it. Spotlight's execution of this difficult story was done with perfection.
Deeply touching movie, the topic helps...but the cast and director also work wonderfully with this classic style filming to make this story come to your door. Wonderful Mark Ruffalo
Mark Ruffalo is fantastic. The story is heartbreaking but well written to guide you through the crazy tale of the Globe finally putting together the pieces to break the story.
A brilliant expose into the opening up of the heinous acts hid by the Catholic church in Boston. It keeps you thinking long after the film about the messed up nature of what is meant to be a strong force for good.
A heart-wrenching and difficult fact to S willow for those in the Catholic religion; but truly written well. We must remember the Good surpasses the bad in all things.
Pretty good movie. But still confused on how it won more awards than The Big Short. The subject matter is very interesting but it still made me bored somehow.
A testimony of the dark side of the church.
Excellent story well acted and directed. Story-telling at its best.
the Academy needs a category for acting ensemble, the acting as group was amazing; the story riveting
"They knew and they let it happen! It could've been you, it could've been me, it could've been any of us" ~Mike Rezendes
????? ?? ??????????!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ???????? ????? ??? ????? ? ?????? ??? ???????!!!!!!!!
Soberbia película, de lo mejorcito que fue a los Oscars este año. Un guión excelente interpretado por unos actores que dan la talla en cada línea (ese Marc Ruffalo...), con una historia apasionante y profunda que es el eje central de toda la cinta. Cierto es que los personajes carecen de importancia frente a esta, pero eso no quiere decir que no existan y la trama principal no los transforme emocinalmente.

Una película que debería ser recordada durante años.
Deep, great ensemble.
Amazing moving. Amazing Story with a great cast. Even though I knew how this movie would end my stomach got into a tighter knot as the movie went on. Storytelling at its best
sad movie for rainy afternoons
Interesting story but I feel like I've seen better and more gripping documentaries. In short, it was boring
The story of the Spotlight team was well shot, VERY WELL ACTED (especially by Ruffalo and Adams) and well written... but it's a story we all knew.  I didn't like how it lionized the reporters.  These weren't heroes.  The victims they interviewed were the real heroes, and the movie should've concentrated more on them.  We cut out before a lot of the victims really even told their stories in full, then got to hear about it later from the Spotlight team.  I would've liked it more if we had seen the full interactions between the team and the victims and gotten to see the real-time reactions of the team to the victims' stories.  Spotlight is a good movie with a good script that handled its subject matter delicately and with taste, but it whispered when it should've screamed.
Always heard of these priest in the news, but the way this movie shows the reality of this true story is chilling. One of the best put together movies I have ever seen. Star studded and great acting, you will be compelled from beginning to the end.
Excellent acting few a strong cast makes this unmissable. Based on true accounts of catholic priests who have molesting minors and up until now have been keeping it secret. That is until an investigation is about to uncover some shocking truths
Great storytelling - Outstanding acting
Best Picture in 2015? Not in my opinion.
A great and horrifying true story with truly great acting and a fantastic cast. While not a movie you re-watch ever couple weeks, you should go back and watch it every once and a while because it is truly great.
Riviting storytelling. A must see!!
Sad that this is true, but I'm glad it got exposed.  Basically, movie is saying what took place...
'Spotlight' is a perfect movie. In its pace, in its casting, in its soundtrack... It isn't the best movie you'll ever see but it has zero flaws. Mark Ruffalo is a mesmerizing actor. I give it 2 thumbs up because I only have 2 thumbs...
This was an excellent movie, even though the subject matter was extremely depressing
Good movie. It was well preformed
powerful story, great performances
This is the type of great story telling that does a movie goers heart right.The cast is tight and near flawless.Just about as good as anything I've seen in quite a while.
Amazing! One of the best and most well acted movies I've seen in a very long time!
A worthy Oscar winning drama. The acting was superb and the story was captivating and very well told.
What a great movie but so heartbreaking that the church covers up such abuse.
Great emotional ride.  Forgot I was watching popular actors "acting".  Well worthy of best picture.
A stunning testament to the power of journalistic integrity, 2015's best picture winner earned its statue and then some. The movie is a success not for being groundbreaking, but rather telling the very serious story in the simplest way possible, telling like it is. No grimy sound effects, evil music, foreboding flashbacks or other Hollywood motifs to depict the horrors of child molestation. Just the words from the victims, plain and simple. For those unfamiliar with the story, in 2002, The Boston Globe published a shocking article implicating some 90 catholic priests of child molestation, to which the church did nothing. The piece ultimately won The Globe's Spotlight team a Pulitzer for bringing such an unspeakable secret to light. The entire cast is a revelation, particularly Mark Ruffalo and Stanley Tucci. It's not an easy story to either tell or sit through, but the conviction of these reporters and the grip to which they hold their ideals makes the experience riveting rather than grueling. Any fan of potboilers and mysteries (All the President's Men, JFK, Shattered Glass, etc.) shouldn't pass this one up due to its controversial subject matter. It's just too good.
Deserving of best picture.  Second to Star Wars as my favorite of 2015.
Heart breaking how Power can hurt others and cover it up.
Surprisingly even-handed. A good drama that's well-paced and featuring good performances from all.
One of the best movies I've seen recently! Truly a moving story and had me choked up at the end. Very well executed and great acting!
Great cast, thrilling.  Makes journalism seem like the best job in the world.
This was a very interesting movie because I actually never knew that priests would do that to kids?! But the problem I had in this movie is that I don't understand some of the things that were in the movie. Overall amazing!
Looking into files has never been this interesting. With a real issue to tackle, spotlight is able to make a very interesting and  entretaining plot. Even with the knowledge of the problematic mentioned here, spotlight succeed in showing why this problem is still a problem.
Extremely well-paced with a well-executed plot and interesting characters portrayed by great actors
I really enjoyed watching this movie. For such a sensitive subject, it was very deftly handled. Beautiful!
I have NO idea how this won Best Picture. It wouldn't have been nominated in my opinion. Kudos to Mark Ruffalo for that great scene that we saw a clip of during the Academy awards, but the rest of the movie was pretty un-interesting. Rachel McAdams didn't deserve a nomination at all.
The movie was mostly Boston Globe writers investigating their story. Hardly any drama between them and the Catholic Church.
A brilliant film, but sometimes it doesn't deliver the required sting to really drive home the message.
Excellent. The story of the abuse of children by Catholic clergy took the right line between sentiment and excess, resulting in a movie whose impact stayed long after the closing credits.
WHY WASNT THIS DONE SOONER
Spotlight story is interesting and has a good cast which performs very well, but the feeling of the story is flat.

First, they are talking about abuses to children but you feel almost the whole time that they are following the lead of any other story almost as bureaucrats. There is not much of sensitivity put into the matter.

Second, they are exposing a huge case of system "missbehavior" (to say the least) in the Catholic Church hierarchy and you see how the whole city of Boston is treating this institution with great care. Then, this movie is about showing to the world how the exposition was done and the treatment to the Catholic Church is almost as exquisite as the one that has enabled this institution to hide all this cases.

For gods sake! These people are criminals covering the crimes of even bigger criminals and it seems like we still cannot face them and tell them clearly and to their faces the horrible things they have tolerated and hidden.
Wow. I knew of some. Glad I'm not catholic
Great cast took on difficult subject matter and carried it out brilliantly! Very good movie.
Spotlight is a great movie with a fantastic cast filled with great performances. The story is simple but interesting. My only real complaint with the movie is that it feels small. The acting and the story is in focus, and for many that is more than enough. Not for me, I consider myself closer to the average viewer more than a "film nerd". I love storydriven movies with great acting just as much as the next film enthusiast, but I often need the feeling of scale to truly love a movie. Some of the minor characters are not close to as good as Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton, which becomes very obvious throughout the movie. This is a minor complaint though. All in all the movie achieved it's goal, and told it's story marvellously.
This film is breathtaking. It's not breathtaking for action sequences, CG or fantastical stories. It's breathtaking because of the acting. It's breathtaking because of the cinematography. It's breathtaking because of a real story about real journalists who had the bravery to take on one of the worlds most influential institutions. An absolutely amazing, must watch movie.
This movie hit me. I left the theater pissed off and sad. It achieved what it wanted. Objectively, one of the best movies of 2015, script, acting, cinematography and directing.
Wow. Add this to your must see list. Floored by the negligence of these deceptive institutions, yet not surprised one bit.
Probably the best movie I've seen last 24 hours, based on a true story, Kevin Costner is a serious Oscar contender here!
Clásica película seria, En Primera Plan, tiene un cast excelente con muy buena química, lo cual sumado a un gran guion,basado en una historia real sobre la investigación periodística que saco a la luz curas abusadores, se convierte en un combo clásico que hasta se llevó el Oscar a mejor película... Aunque a mi gusto tendría que haber continuado un poco mas sobre la vergonzosa figura del Cardenal Law, quien terminó jubilándose en el vaticano (aconsejo seguir la historia)
One of the best journalism movies. Very well cast and written. I admire Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber in it so much. The script is particularly worth being noted again and again.
Little slow. But somewhat interesting story
Spotlight is a well-made and heartbreaking film. The actors, Mark Ruffalo in particular, do a great job of expressing the range of emotions required for such a sensitive topic and the story, though hard to watch, is absolutely compelling. I'm not bothered that this won Best Picture.
A very good movie that everyone should see, especially Catholics. I abandoned Catholicism a long time ago, and it had nothing to do with the pedophile priest scandal, but I sure hope this type of stuff gets others thinking about the church they follow. 
The movie is well made and well acted, but it is kind of slow moving. We all know how it ends so there's no real tension here. Just frustration at all the people involved (church members, lawyers, regular people) who helped to cover it up, and refused to accept the truth for what it was. The church is a business, like any other, and it's frightening the power it holds over people. 
It's astounding how many priests were involved, and for how long it went on. And this movie is just about the Boston area. 
Just another reason to question everything, and don't accept things just because "it's what we've always done". 
All those poor abused kids. Damn.
makes you furious at the Roman Catholic Church
'Sometimes it's easy to forget that we spend most of our time stumbling around the dark.'
this is the kind of movie that makes you feel happy for making good use of your time. Brilliant story telling, brilliant acting and brilliant direction.
All have sinned, and come short of the glory of God. (Romans 3:23)

It seems probable the people with a surname McCarthy are highly not indifferent to any kind of hunting. American director Tom McCarthy, who has the same surname as a U.S. Senator Joseph McCarthy, whose notions provoked a whole series of persecution of politicians in 50th, concerned with communism, well-known in history as a «witch- hunt», also arranged a «hunt» together with the collective of his new work, but this time a «priest-hunt».

The film «Spotlight» shows the story of child sexual abuse by catholic priests from the Archdiocese of Boston investigation by journalists of «The Boston Globe» newspaper.

The main task of the film lies in its name «Spotlight» - to light up facts to public. That's exactly how the column what the collective of journalists together with their new editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) published the investigation in is called, provoked the immense scandal round the Catholic Church. This story really had a place in the beginning of 2000th and the prepared report brought the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for the newspaper. Some of the journalists who had taken part in the investigation joined to making of the film helping the actors to show their characters better.

But it's not worth while expecting from «Spotlight» the energetic pace braided with feelings boiling and the characters' persuasions. Superfluous runtime and sluggish process of the plot, especially the first 30 minutes, induce in audience only drowse and loss of interest. Pale colors of the editor's office and not much bright journalists' shirts only intensify this process to the Howard Shore's soothing music. Even tears and anger of victims of violence telling their stories to the finders of truth don't take off the fatigue from the quite monotonous dialogs and the characters' emotions.

The only one thing that can give a little impetus to the film is the journalist Michael Rezendes' (Mark Ruffalo) heartfelt cry to his colleagues. Actually the picture doesn't spark interest in the process of developing its events and instead of making the audience root for the «Spotlight» collective success the film only draws a spectator into slow swimming between the lines of clippings and the monotonous dialogs.

The director Tom McCarthy also acted as a journalist given the possibility to audience to learn the element of truth about modern problems of Church. But if you follow the slogan of this picture and really «read between the lines», you may ask yourself: is it right thing that the director had revealed this subject? If Tom McCarthy used material about the sins of some company, as in the Michael Mann's film «The Insider», instead of the story about sinned priests, or materials about common maniacs seducing minors, the film «Spotlight» would look only more colorless and even be more devoid of actuality yet.

The problem of the priests who really perpetrated child abuse is a heavy cross for the whole Catholic Church and rated as a mortal sin and a crime. Such actions of any kind that leave non-vanishing sign in victim's life must be punished. But you shouldn't forget that the Church consists of the same people as any other institution what all the people are also sinned and infirm in. And unfortunately none of us is insured from sins and temptations.

After watching the film a spectator may get the impression about deep viciousness of the whole Church and its hypocritical screen by God's Commandments for the sake of hatching its own interests. Each spectator can endure such a feeling that a journalist Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) felt, relied on coming some day to church, but after hearing about some clergymen twisted actions, his hope was cracked. That's why exactly this picture can do much harm to audience's faith if it's understood wrong.

You shouldn't brand the whole Church because of some stray sheep. The fact that there are a lot of murderers and maniacs in the world doesn't mean the world lost good people. The director Tom McCarthy spotlighted only the painful wound of the Church. But despite of it I'd like the audience knows and doesn't forget all good actions of clergymen, their ministration to the poor and the needy and the fact that many people got the hope and got rid of many vices thanks to priests and monks.
A great, compelling journalistic thriller in vein of All The Presidents Men.
Very eye opening and breathtaking view of the coverups and corruption with the Catholic Church and the community, just sad. Excellent movie well put together seemed as if it was a book and I just kept flipping through pages. Yes must watch
Spotlight showcased courage and perseverance to beat the unbeatable. I just hope that media nowadays is able to exert its significance and fulfill its obligations, regardless of suppression.
it was like confession, frightening
i was high when i watched this so i should watch it again i just don't want to.
Very well acted ,interested topic does not play sides ,power of journalism when it done right ,when it not bias or polarized 
ð???
A lot of good actors good script and it reveals the Catholic Church's true nature "corrupt corporation!"
This is a film not so much about the Catholic Church as it is about the journalists who exposed the Boston scandal - and it really works as such. What great casting! Perfect. Really a very intriguing watch. Totally engrossing.
Compelling story, strong performances out of all actors. This was a hard to watch at times telling of the Catholic Church scandal in the early 2000's. Mark Ruffalo's best performance.
A rather boring account of an earth shattering topic.
Slow start but worth it! Great acting!
Spotlight is definitely a must see and now one of my favorite movies. The intrigue is carried on beautifully by great actors. Rachel McAdams shows great talent once again. Mark Ruffalo plays an interesting character, even though you might get annoyed by all his mimics. The tension grows as you discover with the characters how big the story truly is.
Spotlight is a terrific film that can help make the world a better place. Everyone (of a certain age) should see this film so it can raise awareness of the disgusting acts that have taken place over, not just America, but the world. The direction is subtle but brilliant and score builds it up masterfully. The cast all give focused and complex performances that offer depth to the character they are playing. Michael Keaton continues with his revitalisation, Mark Ruffalo gives one of his best performances and Rachael McAdams has an incredibly natural likability in this film that it is difficult to take your eyes off of her. The thought that this has actually happened shakes me to me very chore and will make most viewers' stomach churn.
I can see why it won best film ð???
a very well made, well put together movie with very good acting by all
Watched this twice in the space of a few days, deserved Best Picture. Without spoiling anything, a film with a topic as sensitive as child molestation must be hard to pull off, but they do it, and they do it so well.
Truly brilliant, you might think this film must be boring and very dark but they do a great job of making it frantic and exciting. The subject matter is dealt with brilliantly not making the viewer too uncomfortable but will certainly leave you thinking about things for a while. Hands down the best film i have seen this year.
This movie is deliciously excellent and perfectly executed. It follows a team of journalists as they investigate sexual abuse within the church. It's a very intriguing story, with amazing acting, amazing writing, amazing dialogues, amazing music. Everything about this movie just works so well. The movie handles the issue of sexual abuse so respectfully and doesn't resort to cheesy or tasteless scenes. Highly worth a watch.
??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
A great true story that deserved a movie. Dry in places, the movie shows the slow unraveling of decades of the Catholic church's senior members' cover-up of child abuse by its priests. We all know where it's going before we watch it, but it still has the power to surprise and shock.
A must watch. A journalistic investigation about pedophile priests in Boston, of the same caliber as "all the president's men".
Won Oscar for best picture. There's a good argument that Ruffalo should have won best supporting actor.
Although all true, real stories, villanizing the Catholic Church is mostly on the agenda. It'd be nice to show
The good catholic priests out there. I'll still pray for the victims.
Awe-striking film that will leave you thinking about its plot and the deeper meaning for a long long time.
The drama is authentic, feels like an old 50's movie. Is a particularly rarely optimistic movie set in the midst of a huge social scandal as well as the 9/11 transitional phase.
This film packs quite a punch with its fantastic cast and ponderous pace. Still, its true star is its engrossing story - told with both dignity and humility.
Spotlight combines fine acting, excellent writing, and creative photography to handle an important subject.  This is what good film should be.
Like many who hail from the South Side of Chicago, I was born and raised Catholic.  I went to Catholic school for 14 years and, for a time, was in church every weekend for mass.  I was even an altar boy in junior high.
 
That's why any story involving a priest abusing children hits so close to home for me.  That could've been me.  That could've been a sibling or a cousin or a friend or a classmate.  Any time I hear about such a thing, it always makes me stop to realize just how fortunate I am.  I'm fortunate that I came from a good community; fortunate that I came from a stable home; fortunate that every priest or brother I've encountered in my lifetime (in school or otherwise) has been a good man.  If just one of those factors was untrue...then who knows what could've happened?
 
"Spotlight" was a tough watch for someone like me, yet it's also undeniably riveting and compelling, and I can see why it just claimed the Academy Award for Best Picture.  It deals with the team of journalists at the Boston Globe who in 2001 uncovered a massive scandal involving numerous priests who'd molested (and then some) children...and the higher-ups within the Catholic hierarchy who covered for them and, in many instances, simply transferred the offenders to different parishes.  And that's the real kicker; not only did these monsters escape punishment for their crimes, but many of them were actually put in positions TO REPEAT THEM.
 
In some ways, "Spotlight" almost works like a police procedural, as the reporters slowly begin to piece together the story and discover, to their mounting horror, it's far worse than they initially realized.  They interview former victims (these scenes are especially painful and heartbreaking).  They track down old news clippings and court documents.  They have discussions with attorneys who both represented and are currently representing victims.  And as the whole thing keeps building, it begins to have an effect on their personal lives.  One reporter can't even face going to mass with her grandmother anymore.  Another discovers that some relocated past-abusing priests may actually be residing in his neighborhood.  Still another feels incredibly guilty due to the fact that information pertaining to these crimes was actually sent to the Globe several years ago, and it was essentially ignored.
 
The ensemble cast, including Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, and Stanley Tucci, is uniformly excellent, with most of the actors getting an opportunity to shine.  Ruffalo and McAdams received Oscar nominations, but you could make a convincing argument for just about every member of the cast.  You can feel the anguish, the anger, and the guilt.  That might be another reason the film can be a challenging viewing experience; it forces the viewer to address uncomfortable questions, questions like, "How long has this sort of behavior actually been going on?" and "How could nobody realize this?" and "Couldn't somebody do something about it?" or, perhaps most damningly, "How could I have not seen this?"
 
Of course, the film makes it clear that the church did everything in its power to essentially sweep all this under the rug, and its power is vast and great.  You've no doubt heard of situations in which a person of great influence is said to be "in the pocket" of big names firms and banks; we hear this sort of thing about politicians all the time.  But what's often forgotten is that the church, or indeed religion as a whole, has incredibly deep pockets as well, and it's just as easy to get entrenched in them too.
 
I wouldn't say that I'm a religious person.  I have my beliefs, and yes, they mostly stem from my Catholic upbringing.  But over time, I began to drift away from some of the strictness associated with being a "Catholic school boy," if you will, and I'd say that's not generally abnormal.  I don't attend mass on a regular basis, and I haven't for years.  I'm not going to pretend that this is solely due to these abuse scandals--that would be taking an easy and convenient way out--but they're most certainly a factor.  It's a sickening feeling that an institution that is supposed to be holy and sacred could do such awful, disgusting things, and I could most definitely understand why a person could be put off by the notion of joining the Catholic faith.
 
I'm certainly not condemning all priests and brothers.  (As I mentioned above, I had the good fortune of having never countered any of the evil ones.)  And I'd certainly like to believe that, nowadays, the Catholic community has a better handle on this.  But "Spotlight" should serve as a reminder that, not so long ago, the number of "bad eggs" was staggeringly high, and those who were in a position to do something about it were, at best, negligent and, at worst, complicit in the wrongdoings.
 
No doubt, "Spotlight" is a difficult film.  But it's also one of the year's best.  We NEED challenging movies like this on occasion.
All the Presidents Men lite. Great cast though, and had 20-30 minutes been trimmed it could have been a lot more engaging. But considering this film's universal acclaim, and that I loved Tom McCarthy's last two films (not counting the Cobbler here) I think I'll need to revisit this one.
The story is one of the sickest true stories that may have ever happened and probably continues to happen. Even if you followed this as it happened this movie will give you details that will just add to the disgust. The acting is very good and helps you get sucked in, but mainly it is all about the story and how it unfolds. Best picture though...eh, dunno about that.
To my Catholic friends, research who your priest is. Praying for all the victims. Sick over this.
I can see why it won the Oscar for Best Picture. It was well-acted, well-written, and riveting. Some parts felt a bit slow to me, but it was interesting overall.
Gripping and mesmerizing, Spotlight shines a bright light on one of the greatest cover ups of our day. The only bad part of this film is the subject matter; you wish it wasn't true.
Wow!  This movie is an eye opener and amazing work!
Sure enough, Tom McCarthy has crafter a film that feels and look like a great documentary. The acting ensemble is great and you even sometimes forget they are actors and feel you are truly watching a special unit of journalist at work trying to expose one of the most horrendous scandals in recent history. Does the film deserves best movie of the year? No, by my standards it should have been either Mad Max or The Revenant (both absolutely terrific in their own rights). But apart from that it's a solid film, well written, perfectly photographed and choreographed needless to say. Some of the conversations and debate exposed in the film are by far the most interesting i have heard (in a film) this year. Great film undisputedly.
meh kind of late and no that well told
One of the best movies I've seen in years. Not being Catholic, I'm ashamed to admit that I was more or less ambivalent to the story when it came out. Maybe the country was so embroiled in 9/11 that I just couldn't focus anything else. What a travesty. Sadly, despite the "Spotlight", I can't help but think the situation still exists.
This movie did a good job of getting out of the way and letting the story be the story. It reminded me of my love for journalism.
Very tough movie. Greatly done.
Very interesting movie. I'd recommend it to anyone!
I loved this film!  So happy it won best picture!
Not a bad film but certainly not deserving of the accolades it has received. The cast is pretty good but all have offered superior performances in other films. Much of the dialogue felt contrived in that slightly condescending way that gives the impression the filmmaker was fearful the audience would be incapable of figuring out the obvious for themselves. The result is that dramatic elements are telegr
Magnifica, estupenda
Una prueba más que un "Óscar" ( o lo que para algunos es, un premio de la Academia) no es sinónimo de calidad o prueba contundente de que un filme es mejor que otro. Sobre "Spotlight" se debe de destacar el gran reparto que tiene y que hace un buen equipo con el director Tom McCarthy, sin embargo está muy lejos de profundizar en un tema que al parecer, por lo menos en esta cinta, continúa siendo callado por los círculos de poder. Pederastia, violaciones, abuso de poder en general es algo de lo que el filme menciona o destaca como historia principal en una narrativa sumamente plana, sencilla sin aportes , sobre todo argumentales. Estilísticamente recuerda al filme "Todos los hombres del Presidente" de Alan J. Pakula y tal vez para muchos sea un filme revelador, sin embargo no es el primero que toca estos temas, pero para ser sinceros en otros abordaron con mayor detalle lo que este deja en blanco. En fin creo que en si el premio obtenido fue darle un paliativo a un pueblo que exige la verdad completa y no truncada o censurada por intereses más allá de lo humano...
Really well made film with smart script and professional performances from all actors.  Mark Ruffaro deserved his Oscar nomination, Michael Keaton should have been nominated too as his acting was fierce yet calm.  The movie left a lot of things to think about long after it ended.  Well done.
Wow. Highly poignant, interesting and entertaining throughout. Great acting by all, Liev Schreiber and Mark Ruffalo stand out. Not a better move than "The Revenant" but understand why it won Best Picture.
Sencillamente espectacular.
A story that had to be told.
It's amazing how a film so uncinematic can be so captivating. This is bare bones cinematography, but I think that's intentional. I think McCarthy and Takayanagi wanted to put the spotlight (pun fully intended) on the actors and let them and the story carry the film. And it paid off! Spotlight is a thoroughly engaging, almost documentary-like film!
PODCAST - https://soundcloud.com/ryangunasekera/spotlight-2016

I'm watching the Showtime series 'Billions' at the moment.  In it, the key antagonist articulates clearly the argument that writing a cheque for few million, even a billion, is the much preferred option to be barred from ever trading securities again, let alone jail.  If you write a cheque, you can view as simply a cost of doing business.  It will never correct the underlying behaviour.

Sadly, that has been the reality of prosecutions in the finance world since the GFC, and it follows the sickening trend that Spotlight brings to life.  "If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one," as one of the key characters remind of us of the complicity that we all perhaps share.

Spotlight is brilliant from every corner, breathtaking performances combined with a riveting storyline, demonstrating investigative journalism at its finest.  But no one could walk out of that cinema, as I did with my Dad, and not feel sick to your core that this was a worldwide system operating, and so few have ever seen the inside of a jail cell for it.

Sure, the settlements have reached the stratosphere of billions now, but it is hard to argue that any of the underlying causes have been addressed.  And that is perhaps the deepest question for us all to address, what complicity do we share in a system capable of such evil, where leaders are not held to account and the system doesn't change?
Going to Catholic Church was almost like going to a convention for Megan's Law members
A light in the Dark

A true story told from the point of view of a gumshoe group of investigative reporters, Spotlight is a film that needed to be made, deserves to be seen, and was composed with a grace and maturity toward its subject that is hard to come by. An exploration of the child molestation scandal that rocked Boston and later the entire world, Spotlight covers an uncomfortable subject.

Good journalistic films in the vein of All the Presidents Men (though overrated) are hard to come by, and one wonders how much this has to do with Hollywood or how much it has to do with the state of journalism in America. For ounce, what the Spotlight team uncovered, though far too late, was an example of what journalism should be. Unrelenting, focused, and guided by the public interest. The film captures this and evokes the enormity, depravity, and emotion of the time. It accomplishes this through mature direction, a phenomenal ensemble cast, and intelligent dialogue. It's not always easy to watch, yet something that gains in appreciation as we confront what we don't want to.

4.5/5 Stars
Cracking, almost full marks
A perfectly acted and near-perfectly directed and scripted film that does an outstanding job of attacking the event not the institution.
Back to the basics of Cinema..Good Acting while we (the camera) observes. The "based on real life" is very believable since the protagonists don't seem as if they have super powers.
Best movie of the year. Phenomenal cast. Go see this movie immediately if you missed it.
Brilliant. A story that needs to heard by everyone.
Really powerful story.
Cool idea but way too long. Doubt I ever watch it again.
There's an interesting line by one of the characters used as a source in the ultimate expose on abuse within the Catholic Church by upwards of 90 priests throughout the decades.  This character was an ex-priest who wrote a book from his time spent inside one of the treatment centers in order to determine whether this priests could return to duty, as it were.  This character, who's only heard from telephone calls, admits to Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo) that he still remains a Catholic in spite of everything, the church trying to discredit him and his findings.  He then says something that was very wise.  He says that the institution was created by men, his faith, however, is in the eternal and how they are two completely different things.  And I think that's something that's so relevant to this and the real-life people that wrote this article that exposed, and rightfully so, so many pedophile priests.  They're not going after religion itself, they're going after the institution that allowed these priests, by reassigning them to other parishes in other states, to continue to sexually abuse children.  There's also an interesting approach to this by one of the victims of this abuse, Phil Saviano, who says that the abuse isn't just physical, it's also spiritual.  These kids are taught to respect priests as being the voice of god on this earth, so you should do whatever they tell you or else it's like you're saying no to god.  And I've never actually seen that side of it until now.  Of course there's the physical and mental aspects of being sexually abused as a child by one of these priests, but I never actually thought about the spiritual aspect until watching this film.  These priests destroy these kids' faith and trust in the church to the point that they never want anything to do with it again.  And it's not like you can blame them.  You get to see, as the film tells its story, that there's a pattern these priests use to go after children that are more viable to do whatever it is they want them to do.  They come from broken, poor homes without fathers.  They're easier to be groomed or taken advantage of.  It's a completely fucked up system and the film does a great job at exposing that, in spite of all the lurid details surrounding the abuse itself.  One of the things that really struck me about this film is the fact that the story starts off 'simply' with a tale of one priest suspected of sexually molesting children being moved from parish to parish each time he was accused of it.  The more they uncover about this one priest, the more they discover about how this is actually a systemic issue where the church has actually cut some deals with the families affected by abuse in order to keep them quiet and avoiding a scandal.  The church is portrayed, essentially, as a legal mafia.  They have so much power and influence, everybody in the film is afraid to get into a legal fight with them for fear that the church will destroy them with their lawyers.  It's quite something to see.  I've never been a fan of the church, or religion for that matter, but the fact of the matter is that they really did behave like a legal mafia in order to protect their own name.  They knew there was a problem and they did nothing, they were protecting their own interests, since the catholic church brings in billions of dollars every year.  It's a business, it's not a religious institution and this film illustrates that point perfectly.  Honestly, this movie is nothing short of fantastic in how it handles its subject matter and its characters.  Because it would've been easy to lionize these reporters for what they did, like Clint Eastwood did for Chris Kyle in American Sniper, completely overlooking the fact that he was a psychopath that enjoyed killing.  But this film, thankfully, doesn't do that.  One of the film's major themes is the fact that Cardinal Law knew about this and he did nothing, he kept moving these priests from parish to parish, therefore allowing the abuse to continue.  So, obviously, fingers start to be pointed and the blame game about who was guilty of what.  But it turns out that the Boston Globe, the newspaper Spotlight works for, had information regarding at least 20 priests dating back years prior to them tackling this subject as a serious article.  So, really, they also knew and they did nothing, since they buried the information in a section of the newspaper that nobody read and failed to follow up on it.  Perhaps they're not as guilty as those that defended the priests or the church itself for keeping them in the system, but the Globe did hold some responsibility for not really making as big of an issue about it, despite having information and names for years.  Of course these people are heroes, for finally blowing this story wide open and how their story led to thousands of people, from so many different countries, coming forward with their own stories of abuse.  But it's nice to see the movie hold back on trying to create angels out of these characters, because they were also flawed in how late they finally came around to the story, even if they finally did get right in the end.  The writing of the film is fantastic, it's like a great mystery without the actual mystery, since you know that all of what they're reporting are facts.  The acting is top-notch as well, not in that typical Oscar-winning way, though Mark Ruffalo really was fantastic in the movie, but there's a certain chemistry to the cast.  Like they were an actual investigative team that has worked together for years, there's a familiarity to how they interact with each other.  Is it the best movie of the year, however, that is up to debate.  I still thought the best, or my favorite movie at least, of the year was Mad Max: Fury Road.  It was just a masterpiece from beginning to end.  This is, obviously, the more traditional Best Movie winner over Fury Road and I think that's what the Academy were going for.  This movie, again, is fantastic and I really do think it needs to be seen.  Do I think it's the best movie of 2015?  Not really, but that's my opinion and I don't hold it against anyone who thought it was.  It really is a special and important piece of work that has to be seen.  I would highly recommend this movie.
I appreciate very much the way this film portrayed the working journalists and their dogged pursuit of the truth in a story that is so important.  The film is not exciting visually or in its scripting, and I think this could have been improved somewhat without jeopardizing the great dedication to showing investigative journalism at its best.  But overall it's to the film's credit that all involved present a compelling and occasionally tense situation that uncovered the horrific crimes of abuse that pervaded the Catholic Church, and which the church tried hard to cover up for decades, to their unending shame.  In many ways, that criminal and immoral pattern remains a problem and has not been addressed in any substantial way by the church, even with the more admirable Francis now in charge.  As for the movie itself, we must applaud the filmmakers for their dedication to both telling this story and highlighting the heroic efforts of these journalists.  The need for such journalists is even greater today, and with the financial struggle of large newspapers the ability to investigate stories over months is increasingly at risk.
Credit must go to Tom Mccarthy for not only showing a wider audience the role that the press played in exposing one of the great scandals of recent history, but also managing to do it in a way which feels believable and also keeps the audience captivated the whole way through.
I would rather be one of the kids molested by the priests than watch this
A familiar story with revelations on scale that is surprising. Still wasn't enough to captivate though. Some great acting. Specially by Mark Ruffalo.
The best film of the year!!! Hard and neccesary. Mark Ruffalo and Michael Keaton 10/10. Winner Oscar Best Film 2016.
Spotlight is a film with suave and serious intent to portray the incidents that shocked the Catholics and Cathedrals then. Build on true story, the film succeeds reaping rich contents and sensible acting performances from all leads such as MIchael Keaton, Mark Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber. Special mention to the background music which sets perfectly well with the mood of the film and syncs perfectly well throughout the film. Year 2015 witnessed a lot of  brilliant work from Great film makers across the globe but this one stood apart because it pays a tribute the folks affected world wide with the Incident with it.
Greatly deserving of the Academy's "Best Picture" award Spotlight delivers a intelligent punch to the gut full of cold hard facts overlooked by the American people that will leave you out of breath. The suspenseful investigation led by the Boston Globe's Spotlight special investigations team keeps delving deeper and deeper into a gaping hole in justice. Every time you think you have grasped the gravity of the situation the protagonists find themselves in, you're quickly proven wrong even up until the final scene if the film and the roll of the credits. This film shows a depressing story, the importance of accountability and gives new meaning to the phrase "look the other way." Featuring an All-Star cast filled with performances from Liev Schreiber, Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, and Stanley Tucci your eyes will be glued to the screen for this wild ride.
Taking down corruption one fanatical cult-like institution at a time.
Sublime in every way. No more needs to be said.
Thought provoking. It's movie like this and the short that make incredible cinematography. I hope these movies shed light on social situations in our society to make us a better place to live and evolve in
A great ensemble that fleshes out both the importance of old-fashioned journalism and that, sometimes, you really should listen to that outsider who can see your inherent system for what it is. (See Liev Schreiber's character here.)
A strong film, on the matter of the crisis of the Catholic churches in the United States and all around the world. Very strong cast, very strong script. Best film in my list of 2015. Required to see, absolutely! 

Grade 9/10
The narrative grabs you and doesn't let you go! Watching the Spotlight crew tackle such a emotionally dense subject, that is being covered up by the church, is so tense. You find yourself yelling at the screen and cheering on the cree as these investigative reporters dig deep into this messy situation. All the performances are breathtaking. There is no wondering why this movie won the Oscar.
couldn't stop watching
Important simply because of the thematic...accepting this I realized that dramaturgy and acting was pretty poor...as was the characterization...I'm pretty sure an average European filmmaker would have pulled more out of it.
Finally got to see this over the weekend. Great movie, fantastic catch.
Sad, sad, sad story, told in an excellent manner. Kyrie eleison.
If the hollow heroics of comic books have left you feeling cheated and empty, for goodness sake watch this movie. The story is the star here, and the brilliant ensemble cast distinguish themselves by articulating a script that never sacrifices that story for cheap theatrics or emotional grandstanding. The facts are harrowing, but the thrills here are uplifting as well as professional; as the film closed, I felt a general pride in everybody involved that justice had been done in every sense of the phrase.
Although there wasn't a true lead actor in this incredible ensemble cast, it wasn't necessary in winning "Best Film" at the Oscars.  The acting was phenomenal, all around, as was the script.  A sad, but true story that needed to be told by the press- and now through this film.  It reignites your faith in humanity, even when individuals fail- and they will. I particularly loved the performance from Mark Ruffalo, although Michael Keaton may come across the strongest.   Rating:  8 / 10
Honestly... I don't know why this one won Best Picture. It's a compelling story and remarkable how the Boston Globe handled investigative journalism and I really liked Mark Ruffalo's performance. 

But did I enjoy this movie? Yes but not so enthusiastically. Rachel McAdams was just okay and I wasn't sure how she got nominated for Best Actress. I am glad though that because of this movie, we were able to shed light on pressing issues in the Church. It is a well pieced and well made movie.
Fascinating true story, no gimmicks just great acting
Very good, if a rather unsettling movie. Don't take young kids to this and if you take older kids or teens then get ready for some possibly uncomfortable after movie discussions. It definitely makes you think and was very well done and enjoyable in its way.
Fantastic movie! Great storytelling with fantastic performances!
A well acted drama taking on the Catholic Church and the gross mistreatment of a very serious situation. The Spotlight is shined on what turns out to be one of the most horrible injustices of our time.
Powerful and brilliantly acted.   in this day and age, it reminds you of how important journalism still can be.
Great film all around. Best drama of 2015.
Masterpiece. Must see!
They really nailed the blousey late 90's/early 2000's male dress shirts.
Watched Spotlight on Easter. Just a coincidence. :-) a wonderful investigative journalism movie
Should be required viewing for anyone still ignorant enough to consider the Catholic Church a foundation of ethics and morality.
I will never forget when they released that information... Great job!
Was so bored that I turned it off after 20 minutes.
Like watching an episode of Law and Order with a bunch of geniuses in the cast.  A waste of a great ensemble.  Limited director, limited script.  All the power comes from it's cast and the subject matter.  To those who say it was great because it was sober and sane and not exploitative, I can only say that a movie is not great just because it isn't offensive.  Also, seeing Rachel McAdams talk to townies is almost comical at this point.  How many Boston movies will mix movie stars with locals in hopes of being gritty?  Make a choice.  Go with actors or non actors.  Or else it does start to feel exploitative.  
The script is by the numbers.  Keaton is good, but who is he playing?  We don't even know if he has a family.  I believe this movie won so many accolades because people had goodwill toward the cast and the subject matter-- the newspaper reporters I mean-- and thus, when we were presented with half drawn characters, it was given the benefit of the doubt as stylistic minimalism. But it's actually just paper thin Law and Order network tv level filmmaking.
Fast paced, riveting film that does not lack entertainment. Dialogue is strong and delivers a powerful message, which is carried even further by the incredible performances of the actors. Cinematography is simplistic and emphasizes the realness of the story and the lack of exaggerating. It's about telling a story, not creating one. Edgy, fascinating movie that will surely keep you enthralled. Highly recommended.
I really don't see why such praise has been heaped on this film. It's alright but it has no amazing moments where anyone really breaks out and does something amazing including the writers. It's not bad but it isn't a must see.
A perfect example where everything comes together so well to create an Oscar-winning flick....
Larga, pero buena!!! Un filme que enseÃ±a el poder de la prensa cuando de verdad se va hasta las Ãºltimas consecuencias.
Usually movies about a true story of a scandal that happened or even something small that happened are boring or typical and nothing new from the last. But rarely you'll get one that actually is made well or even great. It takes a great cast, a director who keeps things going and a story that is actually worth making a movie for. With Spotlight, you have a cast that is top notch, mostly Mark Ruffalo caught my eye the most, a story that people either don't remember or didn't pay attention to and a script and director that keep the story going at swift pace. 
The movie keeps going and doesn't really let up. Even in scenes that not much happens, you're paying attention because what is being said is intriguing and with how quick the story unfolds you may miss a detail. What really makes this great is that it doesn't just bring a light to the reporters but also the victims and those involved and the courage it took to talk about this issue. At times it was almost hard to listen  to some of the stories because of the detail it goes into. That's what makes it what it is though. This is worth watching because it isn't just a brush over type movie that is trying to cash in on a story, it takes care of what happened and shows us the how hard it is to get the full story no matter the cost.
Brilliant performances from the cast. They made it feel real, as if they were really uncovering the story as the film progressed.
An engrossing, well paced film. Again great acting from Michael Keaton.
Good movie. I thought the cast as a whole was excellent.
Amazing & intellectual! What an insight into the scandal & into journalism at its core! That's what all writers & reporters should aspire to!
Except for Mark Ruffalo's awkwardness, this was a wonderful story and good movie.
Excelente película, una verdadera crítica al encubrimiento eclesiástico en los casos de pederastia en EUA
A tough film to watch especially being a Bostonian and raised Catholic and remembering many of the priests. Characters were incredibly compelling and believable. Still trying to make peace with the Catholic Church...this will make it even harder.
Great documentary, fascinating to see what the reporters went through to get this story and get the WHOLE story. They are real life heroes.
Spotlight showcases the use of storytelling and characters, in order to bring a powerful piece of film. In a society where movies are often more style over substance, it is nice and refreshing to see focus on a story and not mindless visuals. Everyone who worked on this film deserves praise and It is very clear why this was movie of the year for 2015.
Spotlight paints an interesting and eventful story out of a topic that seems unlikely to be made into a film. On surface the film seems to be about the Spotlight team characters, but it is actually not, not that much character development is required, yet somehow all the pieces are placed together by an important and free flowing story.
Great Documentary with strong script and actors
Insightful and well acted without being in your face about the stories significance.
'Spotlight' is a powerful and difficult film to watch based on its subject matter, that succeeds on the engaging performances of the cast, especially Mark Ruffalo, who display the journalistic process of telling a jaw-dropping cover-up properly and thoroughly enough to make the viewer feel they've been every bit as involved.
A thoroughly engaging and thought provoking insight into what true journalism looks like. Although I was a bit hesitant if I wanted to watch a movie about the subject but the movie was terrific! 
Must watch for all journalists and people who have any sense of passion towards their profession.
Starts slow but then becomes one powerhouse of a movie.  I don't remember last seeing a movie where everyone in it is intelligent.  These reporters are heroes.
Great movie but not the best Oscar winner I think for best picture
Absolute master piece!
must  see for everyone  that lived in Mass in 2001
I'm going to go out on a limb and confirm Spotlight as the best of the films I've seen that came out this past year. It's infuriating and heart breaking and masterfully done. Everything from the acting to the soundtrack was on point. Additionally, it's a powerful document on the misuse of power and the inherent contradiction in a worldview that purports to care about humanity while at the same time promoting a hierarchy of abuse. What's more, it speaks to a growing contingent of "lapsed Catholics" who have had enough of the hypocrisy. Even if you don't care about Catholicism, I highly recommend it as a movie about the power of humanistic journalism and the goodness of uncovering the truth. Go see it.
i thought it was a pretty good movie
It is predictable and has a paint-by-numbers feel but it does so expertly and is entertaining throughout.
A fascinating story and solid all around performances are really what propels the film. The direction and script are nothing special and when compared to the other films nominated for Best Picture in 2016 it feels like a letdown.
One of the best movies I have seen in a while. The cast was perfect. Everyone of them brought a unique piece to the tables. I highly recommend seeing this movie.
It was good not great. Not sure this deserved the Oscar but interesting in that these priests got away with this stuff for so long.
Taking us back to the feeling of true cinema. 
The subject matter is concerning but doesn't flood the experience. Spotlight concentrates on the investigative group of reporters and the journey they take to get the story. Outstanding acting across the board. One the best movies I've seen in years.
A film everyone should see, period. Brilliantly acted and executed!
One of the best films of ever.
A good piece of film-making, but ultimately entirely forgettable.
Really well put together. Kept me interested and absorbed in the story, rather than thinking about the film itself, which is a good thing. Liev Schreiber and Stanley Tucci were both really great, and deserved more recognition than Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo, who gave solid performances that weren't really anything special.
The cast is an impressive ensemble, but Spotlight's genius is in its calmly urgent take on events. In doing so, it makes them all the more sobering and gravid.

9/10.
Just saw this via Redbox . What a great film I would recommend this to anyone it keeps you in your seat also a real eye opener for me into the Roman Catholic Church
really eye opening, great story and great actors
Good, But did't deserve the Oscar
now that's a movie deserving of an Oscar. True acting by a wonderful cast.
What's scary about this movie? Almost everything. For starters after I watched i was 1) thankful I did not grow up Catholic  2) thankful I did not grow up in Boston  Toppling establishments is one of Hollywood's favorite themes. Usually it's police corruption or corporate greed that is targeted but the church scandal was made to order .Althoughyou definitely feel that the movie maker is exploiting a lurid theme, it's not  as over the top  as say, "the Exorcist".
This film was briliantly acted and tackled one of the most controversial and most difficult to publicize story because of its social repercussions.
Spotlight does an excellent job with the heavy and dense subject matter, making it approachable and relatable thanks to its topnotch ensemble cast
One of the few movies that actually made me tear up.  The stories were horrific but the extent of the cover-up was equally disturbing.  Solid Oscar Best Picture winner.
It's hard for me to put into words what I thought of this movie. While it certainly is unsettling considering the subject matter, Spotlight is still one of those films you just need to see. I warn you, if you're like me, YOU WILL BE FURIOUS BY THE END. But, it's only when we're mad as hell, that we won't take it anymore and change what's wrong with our communities. The only downside is that the filmmaking itself I think could have been better, but that's more of a nitpick. 86/100 B. Still very important, however.
Aprovechando la temática periodística, aquí si que estamos en presencia de una tremenda película, de ritmo vertiginoso y actuaciones sobresalientes. Guión inteligente para un tema espinoso y atrapante. 4 estrellas y me castigo por no ir a conocer Boston.
Bobbie And I. Love this Movie!!POWERFUL!! Got EMOTIONAL!! FELT THE WORLD IS BEING BETRAYED ON SO MANY LEVELS!! BY OUR CHURCH'S... THANK YOU FOR RETELLING THIS, STILL HAPPENING STORY!! SHAME ON THEM!!  I Remembered when it hit the NEWSPAPERS!!!   HELP US ALL AND PROTECTION TO ALL OF OUR CHILDREN OF THE WORLD!! IN JESUS CHRIST NAME!!!  AMEN.
Great newspaper movies often share the triumphant emotional punch of a great sport movies. This one is amazing.
Awesome story and screen play
A great story brilliantly told.  See it!
Excellent acting, storyline is thrilling. Would see it again!
Spotlight is spot on
The church can go straight to hell.
Talk about a hit-and-miss: an average investigative reporter movie on one of the hottest topics in recent years. The fact that it has won Best Picture Academy Award shows the mediocre level of 2015 movies.
As powerful and as classic the story is the movie doesn't add much. The whole world knows about these incidents, not many people dare to do anything about it. I loved the cast though; Ruffalo is my man!
Intersting movie, specially about the topic. It is really interacting how the act goes and you can see how devoted the journalists were to the case. Being a victim of such type of crime is undeniable the most horrible experience u can have in your entire life. I hope that those had find peace. 

Great movie
A story that deserved to be told. A fine film with a talented, ensemble cast. There's so much talk about Mark Ruffalo but Liev Shreiber's understated and subtle turn was one the performances to remember  alongwith Michael Keaton.
In one of the scenes in Spotlight, a character tries to talk some 'sense' to a Michael Keaton's character 'Robby'

"This is the Church , you're talking about, Robby. Look around.  These are good people,  done a lot of good for this city.  Enjoy the party..."

Makes me think of all the good examples supporters throw at you whenever you criticize people in power. Does doing a 'lot of good' give youthe liberty to do a 'little bad'?

Spotlight is a brilliant movie which handles its subject with a lot of grace and finesse.
A very interesting movie that nearly held my full attention the entire time. There were slow moments, but it was worth watching and the true events were interesting to learn about.
This is really a must see. It has very much the same feeling as the classic "All the President's Men" but modernized.
A truly gripping story from start to finish.  The story was brought to life with a great script that was complimented by the excellent acting.  An outstanding job from all aspects.  I would happily recommend this film.
Riveting from start to finish .
Great acting. Glad the real Spotlight team brought the horrors to the public eye.
This was the most amazing 2 hours and 9 minutes, very well spent. WATCH THIS MOVIE!!!
Great film! I commend the writers, director, cast, and crew on their bravery this was not an easy story to tell but they didn't excellent job!
Disturbing events uncovered by the Boston Globe. Solid movie but a little depressing. I thought The Revenant was a much better film but with Spotlight dealing with such a huge and moving story and focused on the media and investigative reporting it's no wonder it won best picture.
Spotlight is a very fulfilling movie that's easily very deserving of its Oscar win.
Spotlight is a film that shouldn't work on any level. This film has no flashbacks, no blood, no sex scenes and yet it deals with child sexual abuse that goes on every day in many churches and all over the world. Spotlight brings up the question of religion and puts it on trial making for a lot of powerful conversations that could make a person lose there faith in humanity and in the ideals that many of Americans believe about there on faiths.

Tom McCarthy makes this movie work so well. Allowing for each victim affected to tell there story in a way that never feels forced but instead like real people talking to each other. There are very few Oscar bait scenes as every character here feels like a real human being. Making this one truly amazing script.

Sadly the film can't help because of the nature and the choices they have made in not showing a lot of flashbacks or grotesque sex scenes that there are times when the characters are all just talking to each other and trying to uncover things that it can feel dull and there are just so many politics and things that stop the characters from going all in and making this story a reality and letting the people know.

Because of this I feel like this film did get some backlash from its Oscar wins because of all of these things. As powerful as the film is to some it may seem like a failure in there eyes, but it most certainly isn't.

Spotlight might not be my favorite film of 2015, but it defiantly deserves to be up there because of its powerful dialogue and script that makes it all the more interesting to see it unfold before our eyes.
I'm from Boston and this movie was close to my heart.
Spotlight is a carefully crafted film that delicately balances objective fact with overwhelming pathos. Every moment provides an opportunity for the filmmakers to emotionally attack the Catholic Church, but instead it allows the characters to tell the story through their objective journey. The characters are represented by a stellar ensemble cast with Mark Ruffalo earning an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor. The dialogue is smooth and perfect when told by the cast. The words are soaked with wit and humor; an impressive feat for a film addressing such urgent truths. Tom McCarthey's directing is concise, and allows the actors to steal the show. Perhaps the movie lacks a climax, but the calm story telling accentuates the somber ending and gives the movie its gravity.
A truly compelling and devastating story that pulls you in from the start along with an all-star cast who give the performances of their careers.
A hetvenes évek igazságkeres? újságírófilmjeinek méltó örököse.
A compelling story of even more corrupted crap within America, albeit more somber than The Big Short.  To tell the truth, I did not find this best picture worthy at the Oscars, compared to every other nominated movie that I've seen.  Mark Ruffalo for best supporting actor is kind of a 'meh' for me, much like the guy from Bridge of Spies, and I still think it is an atrocity Steve Carell wasn't even nominated.
Definitely a must watch!
Reminds me of well made movies in the 90's before there was special effects and all the technology they use to make movies in the present day.  This movie is brilliant which comes from great acting, good story and directing.
Spotlight is a brilliantly subdued heavyweight of a movie wherein every component, even the somewhat mundane visuals, feel integral to the riveting story-telling.
Ruffalo was excellent.  McAdams is lovely.  The story and editing was a little weak though, and it didn't flow as well as it could have.  After Black Mass I'm starting to think that I've been right all along about Boston Bruins fans.
It was alright.  Interesting that it happened but didn't really make the best movie. Good performances though.
Perfect, in all levels.
Near-breathless high-tension performances from a fully immersed ensemble, each member conveying an unflagging determination to unveil the breadth of degeneracy. 
The screenplay, by [Tom] McCarthy and Josh Singer, is one of the film's greatest strengths, imbued with as much wit as it is sobering truths.
The film was not slow, it has its own rhythm. It gives the impression that journalists were afraid of the Church, because Boston is one of the most Catholic cities in the United States. The soundtrack bothered me because it is very repetitive. The film focuses on a journalistic investigation and not just on pedophilia. Although I agreed saying that Spotlight would win the Oscar I think the film will not be very successful unless the journalism university course.
This is a fantastic film about the decades long cover up by the Catholic Church of priests sexually abusing children and the journalists who uncovered it in 2001. This is a fantastic film about the importance of investigative journalism and the abuse of power. Great acting, great script, well deserved best picture win at the Oscars.
going to have trouble falling asleep after this one
I feel like Thomas McCarthy just made this film for attention
I made a sincere promise that I would fight every local priest in my area if this won best picture, I keep my word.
Just amazing movie from to back with a top notch cast and telling a truly important story.
Well acted and Well made, and pardon the pun, thank God no one is above the law NO matter what they do for a living!
Great movie....sends a message..
Such a brilliant ensumble cast who captivate the audience throughout while highlighting the important details of this scandal. Also the actors playing the victim were amazing I believed every word they said almost as if they were the real victims. Listening to what happened to these victims can be hard in some scenes but it's important that it is spoke about that to bring light to it and what has happened to them and is still happening now.
Excellent movie, compelling, grippling and horrific story. But it's not just a story, it is very real for so many people, the very thought of that is madding and frustrating! Very well made, kept me on the edge of my seat for the whole two hours.
Pues técnicamente todo perfecto, pero de eso a merecer un Oscar a mejor cinta ya es mucho trecho.
An amazing movie with a cast of incredible actors. A must see...
Sinceramente, existem filmes melhores sobre jornalismo, não que seja ruim, é pertinente, mas poderia ser melhor.
The subject matter and story are interesting, and acting superb. A little boring, and no real climax to speak of. Mark Ruffalo is really awesome, I like how he portrayed the character, and his feelings of relaying the important stories to the public. 
Watched by online streaming with Sam at her house, March 11, 2016.
Finally got around to this a few months late... Played more like a TV movie of the week. Some good performances and an emotionally difficult story, but the pacing and payoff could've been strong. A Few Good Men, for example, pulled off the build and reveal a lot stronger.  Regardless, it's heavy stuff and I'm glad for the exposure of this tragedy to reach a global audience through this film.
This is a great movie for many purely classical reasons: the story unfolds beautifully in front of the viewers' eyes, each scene adds important layers to both plot and characters, the characters are each personally outstanding but they shine due to the profession they represent. Marvellous. Reminded me why I enjoy seeing movies.
This was a very solid telling of the investigative work that uncovered the child abuse cover-ups of the Catholic church in Boston.  The acting was great, and I enjoyed the way the movie conveyed the real work and grinding necessary to unearth the scandal, as well as the mistakes that had been made along the way.  Won the Oscar for best picture.  It was in my opinion certainly in the top three.
Knew the story from early 90's, but had no idea of the background or how widespread.  One child, too much.  1000's is devastating forever.  I just watched this and I'm chilled to the bone and deeply saddened.

The acting was so good and I am surprised it was not recognized more.
Excellent movie about the Boston Globe investigating Cardinal Law and the coverup of priests sexually abusing kids.
I think this is an example of a "true story" that critics and viewers can't separate from the real-life players. People seem to feel that to gauge this as a stand-alone movie would be to impugn the victims and courageous reporters. Well not to impugn them myself, but as a moviegoer, I found this film to be a real snooze. I already knew it was about the reporters who investigated and exposed the scandal; I lived through that fifteen years ago. So I assumed that to be of full-length feature film significance, there was more to the story. There isn't. I kept waiting for some intrigue: overcoming major obstacles, bribes, vilification, threats; personal faith conflicts, parents who would disown them, spouses who would disavow them. There is none of that. In fact the personal lives of the main characters are barely acknowledged. One character wears a wedding ring but no spouse is ever mentioned. One character is mentioned to be separated from his wife but that's about it. All readily admit in one anticlimactic scene that they were all basically raised Catholic, don't attend church anymore, and meh. Among the lot of them, one is shown to have a nana who will likely be upset when the scandal breaks, and in the end, she asks her granddaughter to-wait for it-bring her a drink of water. Even the victims are downplayed. In one scene we see a victim initially being interviewed, cut to a scene where we are told-told, not shown-that he broke down ten minutes in and couldn't stop crying. You know that scene where Mark Ruffalo's character goes on a tirade about how they "knew, and they didn't do anything"? Yeah, you know it because it was in every commercial, every awards ceremony clip. Because it's about the only dramatic scene in the whole movie. Yes, the real story is of real intrigue. The movie? Not so much.
Spotlight (2015, USA) gained the recent Oscars spotlight after winning the Best Film. Brave and compelling, Spotlight exposed the systematic and systemic sexual abuse of the Roman Catholic Church clergy narrated from the investigative journalism standpoint. Intelligent and alarming, Spotlight features a solid ensemble to complement the aesthetically fluid direction. A you-have-to-see-this 10.
Amazing. Beyond the humanity of all the characters, shows the true need for a serious investigative newspaper force in this country (as opposed to what passes for truth on the Internet 99.999% of the time.)

Ruffalo's as amazing as he always is.
You can spot an Oscar worthy film from a distance. Spotlight is a brilliantly made film on one of the lesser known but horrifying acts done in the name of religion through the perspective of the journalists who uncovered those to bring it to public attention. There are no superheroes, big explosions or surprising twists but it is a film made with meticulous attention and in a way to keep you hooked to your seat despite the absence of popcorn thrills. Supported by a solid cast comprising of Keaton, McAdams, Ruffalo and Liev Schreiber Spotlight in an extremely nuanced and methodical way portrays one of the biggest cover ups behind the veil of the Catholic Church and religion as a whole. It is a story that needs to be known.
Brilliant movie. I personally think 'The Revenant' was better but this is right up there and worthy of the Oscar.
this movie is for grownups. boring
Watched Spotlight on pay-per-view last night. Powerful movie. I see why it won all the awards that it did. The story is powerful and sad, but well worth the watch. Highly recommend.
Impresivno cist pristup stvaranju filma. Jasna rezija, scenarij, predanost glumaca na najvisoj razini, jednostavno kvaliteta. Da sam ga uspio pogledati prije Oscara, za najbolji film ne bi dvojio ni sekunde. Potpuno zasluzeno i... usput, svidja mi se velicina i jakost muda koja su akademiji putem do 2016 godine uspjela izrast. Ovo je vrlo mracna i tema koju je trebalo pustit van, drago mi je da je ovako kvalitetno sutirana u mainstream.

p.s.: mozda je novinarska drama, ali kad creditsi zarolaju i prikaze se popis gradova, ugledas: Rab, Croatia, jasno ti je da si zapravo odgledao jedan od boljih horrora po istinitom dogadjaju ikad.
Always engaging, often powerful, perhaps it didn't go far enough to fully unwrap the layers of the subject matter but still thought provoking enough to be in my top 10 movies this year, 80%
We need more movies like this.
Yeah that's a great movie.
Deserved every award they won. Great movie - a real eye opener.
there's no going wrong with this casts. Tom McCarthy has made a very thrilling movie. It's no doubt the best movie of 2015
One of the best movies of the year, period.
A well-constructed, impeccably cast but inevitably flat product as a result of its surprisingly bi-dimensional premise. It's unremarkable.
From those nominated for best picture at the Oscars, this was a worthy winner - although personally I thought the field weak this year. This is a slow burner gradually gaining pace as the story unravels. As much about the process of getting news as the news itself. Wonderfully shot with the backdrop of a claustrophobic Boston trying to protect itself from outsiders. Superbly acted from the top billers (especially Michael Keaton on a roll now) right down to the victims. Only minus for me is the depiction of 911 in the events seen more as an annoyance to proceedings rather than an emotional event.
Very intense film. Long story but full of tension. The ending I guess is the success of a newspaper. Five stars.
good acting but decent movie
Oscar mais que merecido.
Spotlight is an expertly written, meticulously directed, beautifully acted and brilliantly edited piece of cinema. Tom McCarthy has done a tremendous job at bringing this heartbreaking story to life. He manages to stay as true to the real life source as much as possible and he doesn't dramatize the story. He didn't need to and I'm so glad he didn't attempt it. McCarthy doesn't sanitize this story either, he tells the audience exactly how it is. Right from the get go, he has you glued to your seat, and he makes you leave it speechless.

The production design team have done a brilliant job at re-creating the Boston Globe, where the Spotlight team worked. Every set piece looked incredibly authentic. The film was also edited brilliantly. There isn't a dull moment in this film, every single scene keeps the film moving forward at fast pace.

The performances really enhanced the film, and I truly don't think it could have been made with out this incredible cast. If the actors hadn't gone to such great lengths at portraying these real life people, I think it would have really affected the telling of this dark true life story. It could have felt very sloppy and very insulting. Instead we got brilliant performances, that felt tremendously authentic. Michael Keaton adds another stellar performance to his resume, just after his brilliant performance in Birdman. It's definitely exciting to see his career revitalised. He is joined by great performances by Rachel McAdams, Liev Schreiber, John Slattery, Brian d'Arcy James and Stanley Tucci. However the most notable performance for me was Mark Ruffalo. He truly blew me away. From start to finish he was just incredible. I truly believed his performance. You could tell he really cared about the subject matter and doing it right. I mean the guy asked his real life counterpart if he could watch him yell at someone, just so he could really bring him to life in this film.

Overall, Spotlight is highly informative and an incredibly important piece of cinema. Not only is it beautifully created and tremendously captivating, it's an important story that needed to be told. This happened and continues to happen, and the Church still tries to hide it. The film manages to work so well, purely from its amazing script and brilliant performances, without dramatizing a single thing. It's a brilliantly honest look at one of the darkest stories to emerge from the 21st Century, and it is without a doubt one of the strongest films from 2015, and will most deservedly win Oscars. It's a definite must watch, however it will leave you speechless over the dark subject matter.
I have no words for this movie, is beautiful, is perfect. I was caught from the beginning.
Certainly worthy of the Best Picture Oscar nod, Spotlight's great story and acting make it fun from start to finish.
If you haven't seen this, you should.
Really great film about an interesting topic and brought to life by superb performances from the well chosen cast. It is a highly under rated, and very worthy, film that wears its heart on its sleeve.
es una muy buena película sobre periodismo, muy parecida a la mítica Todos los hombres del presidente, de Alan Pakula (1976).
Ogni genitore che manda i propri figli a catechismo deve guardare questo film.
One of the best I've ever seen
Certainly a film with serious message and well researed. Script designed to send you to sleep in minutes. Completely uninteresting treatment, no drama, no suspense, no clever script, no action no interesting characters or oerformancesWell overhyped
A. Maze. Ing. 

Sensitive yet utterly powerful. 

The tip of the iceberg.
Hard hitting movie based around child abuse in the Catholic Church, based on true factual prosecuted stories. The team at the Boston Globe have uncovered a massive list of pedophile priests spanning 30 years.
The newspaper industry is no longer as thriving ever since most of us started embracing interaction over the web, but inspiring journalism has provided the premise to quite a few memorable films, particularly those that involve a long hard struggle to uphold the power of truth. This includes Good Night, and Good Luck (2005), The Insider (1999), All The President's Men (1976) and my personal favorites The Bang Bang Club (2010) and The Nightcrawler (2014). When you make a film on the uncovering of true horrifying cases of child molestation, nothing could be more rewarding than to have it culminating strength and positive effect on your viewers. And that is what director Tom McCarthy has achieved with his 2015 American biographical drama Spotlight. Not only has it garnered Best Picture at Critics' Choice Awards, Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture at the SAG Awards, and six Oscars nominations (including Best Picture), it has most importantly (according to Boston Globe's editor-at-large Walter Robinson) made a huge impact on the public, where more victims are coming forward because of this film. Whilst it brings forward much inspiration, igniting power within the victims, when scandal involves almost a staggering 250 priests from the Catholic Church in Boston who had molested children over several decades, we can't ignore as well the contempt flaring up in all of us and the derision which the churches has to painfully swallow. When asked about his reaction towards the film being made, Boston Cardinal Sean P. O'Malley, who took over after disgraced Cardinal Bernard F. Law stepped down pursuant to the scandal expose, says that it was "a very painful time" in the history of the church, and the series of reports forced the church "to deal with what was shameful and hidden". Insisting that the archbishop would not discourage people from watching the film, O'Malley has given his commitment in eradicating abusive priests from the church.
So Spotlight is based on this enthralling true story. It kicks off with editor Marty Baron (Liev Schreiber) who newly joins the Boston Globe, attempting to further pursue previous column which reported on lawsuits pertaining a priest allegedly involving in sexual abuse. On learning that the judge has sealed court records to prevent the records of the priest from going public, Baron becomes determined to dig deeper to unveil the truth. Looking to expose a systematic cover-up by the Catholic hierarchy who not only knew what had happened but did everything they could to protect their own and discredit the victims, Baron then convinces the paper's Spotlight team of reporters to launch the investigation. The Spotlight team is led by Walter Robinson (Michael Keaton), excitable Michael Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams) and Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James).
What's electrifying about this newsroom drama is how closely accurate it's made, and how almost "real" the story is depicted. It does not melodramatize the situations, and what we see is a group of journalists painstakingly assiduous in doing their job. McCarthy allows the story to take its place, making audience enraged as the scandal snowballs into something daunting and unnerving. I've never been too big of a fan of journalism films but this is one got me. It's pretty absorbing, the message is powerful, and the impact is deeply moving. A solid performance by the entire cast. I was rather surprised and impressed with Schreiber's performance. Ruffalo is as usual a treat to watch, with his righteous anger, edgy movements and pulsating enthusiasm. And another factor which makes the film effective, is the fact that no one is portrayed as the hero, and they basically drag you into their investigation just by being great journalists doing their job.
Intriguing and powerful. Spotlight grips you from start to finish and is well deserving of its Best Picture Oscar win.
The movie was worth watching very interesting how bad the cover up was in that time?
This movie is one of the best dramas I've ever seen. The story is both shocking and interesting, with a fantastic cast to bring it to life. The ability to show the horrible scandals of the catholic church could have been hard to get through, but spotlight finds a way to make it intriguing and exciting to watch how deep journalists are willing to go to expose the truth.
This is the most boring movie I have ever attempted to sit through.
Well written, well acted, well directed, well paced, well crafted. If anything, this suspenseful drama could have been a little bit more raw and a lot less well done. But that's a small quibble for a truly riveting movie that had me on the edge of my seat.
2015 for me was a not very good movie year.  And, I'm not sure in a different year that this would have won Best Picture, but it's really something to look back in 5 or 10 years and see,  

That being said, I enjoyed the movie and found it surprisingly better than expected.  From the understated acting (Liev Schreiber and Rachel McAdams in particular), to the choices made on how and where to end the story, to how Boston  became almost another character, I really enjoyed this.
Spotlight after thoughts: very heavy, deep & serious tell that only a strong cast could bring to life that lead to it's recognition as The Oscars choice for Film of the Year!!! A Roman Catholic, it was difficult not to feel conflicting emotions on how these stories could not have been revealed sooner. It was difficult to watch but a story that had to be told. Bravo to director, Tom M & Mark R, Michael K, Rachel M, Liev S & others. With such a delicate topic, I now understand why circulation & exposure of this film was minimized. MUST SEE!!! ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ð???ð??¼ of 5 (5 of 5)
Beautiful storytelling despite its depraved subject matter with the perfect ensemble cast to pull off this narrative. Michael Keaton should have gotten nominated for best supporting actor.
Oddly I didn't rate this film. I know I know. The topic is vital. The cast stellar. But come on - it just wasn't a great movie. There are scenes with people running around for no good reason just to keep their wets awake. It's a staggering story but not a great film.
A powerful and insightful film with brilliant direction, an intelligent script, and an amazing cast. Spotlight is a film that should be watched and talked about (certainly deserving of is Best Picture Oscar).
One of the best movies I have ever seen
I would say "sadly" the perfect candidate to win best picture after The Reverent a Mad Max:Fury Road.
The true story over the Catholic Church child sex abuse is the one movie everyone should watch for the story and actors.
Especially enjoyed Mark Raffalo performance
All the right beats.  A highly watchable cast teams with a fantastic director and dead on script to make a cinematic experience that packs a wallop.
Great movie and very well done.
Wow, great movie, cast and story. Very disturbing that it's based on a true story
Wonderful.
An excellent subdued drama with suspense, anticipation, and really good acting.
4/5. Spotlight shows us exactly how the modern, political drama needs to be set. Focusing on the professionalism required to deal and work with a highly serious, powerful, and delicate subject, the outcome is solid, stern and cold-blooded, without following the norm of relying on excessive sentimentalism.
A true movie. It really shows how a today average story can to be transmitted on film to get an unbelievable result. Simply great in every aspect.
Brilliant and horrifying. Absolutely deserved the Best Picture oscar. Great performances all around. Gripping and awful.
Incredible! There are no words to best describe this film. The story was told so beautifully. Every single actor in this film was on point. It literally keeps you on the edge of your seat!
Travail d'investigation intéressante dans un milieu tissé-serré que l'Église a su bâtir au fil du temps.
Spotlight is powerful and engaging. Never underestimate the power of the press and what hard work is capable of uncovering. It is also a scathing review of the state of the Catholic Church and their systematic burying of evidence for child abuse.
Power of Media when they're on the right side of the story.  So nicely developed and actors are all doing fantastic job. Nothing more and nothing less. exact perfect pace.
Loved this movie. It was so brave.  Reminded me of All the Presidents Men.   I think they deserved best picture and more.  Mark Ruffalo is the best. Made me cry.
Verdienter Oscar Bester Film!
What a fantastic movie shedding the light on the corruption within the church. I was raised a Jehovah's witnesses from birth. Sadly there is a serious problem within the Jehovah's Witness organization also. All religions say they are the true representatives of God but have the same flaw. They are run by men. Men with their own agendas. Religion disgusts me and they should all pay for the pain they cause in the name of god. I pray for a time when all religions worldwide are exposed for the crimes they commit. Spotlight gets 5 stars in my book. It is just a taste of the real problem. It is a must watch and opens the door and shines the light on a much bigger problem than just the Catholic Church...
cant get passed Ruffalo's accent
This film was moving and eye opening. Mark Ruffalo was awesome! Rachel McAdams could have acquired a Boston accent for the role in my opinion, but otherwise did a good job.
(Spoilers ahead).

I liked the pace and the rhythm and the way they treated the subject without being lurid. One of the strongest aspects of the film is that it succeeds in putting a simultaneous spotlight on the pain of the victims and on the collective negligence and cover-up by the Church, the police, the lawyers, society - and, most importantly, the press.

Part of the conscience crisis that members of the Spotlight team face is the fact that the team members begin to see and acknowledge they never investigated, printed, or followed up on several denunciations, clips, stories, and reports during a long time, including from members of their very own "star" investigative team that finally broke the story - this was very well done. They had also been part of the cover-up, even if their cover-up had been due to their disinterest and neglect, and due to not being as aware - unlike the Church, who had been outright criminal. As one critic put it, the film doesn't lionize and idealize its heroes, showing how the media was often in cahoots with the monstrous Catholic Church.

But... since the movie was written by liberals - who else? - it was replete with propaganda about homosexuality. The most god-awful lie is that these priests just abused male victims "because that's who was available". These people are doing a film about the most infamous male sexual abuse scandal in modern times and they want to insist that a 15-year-old male adolescent was sexually abused by a homosexual priest because the priest couldn't get his hands on a young female adolescent?

What a disgrace. They also never mentioned how many homosexuals there were and are far up in the Catholic Church who aided and abetted the pedophilia and ephebophilia crimes because they were threatened with being outed by the homosexual priests and bishops doing abuse. In the movie, it was all explained away as "these priests are emotionally stunted, that's why they are pedophiles". No mention of how many of them are perverted homosexuals and that's why they abuse.

And Father Shanley, described as "a hippie", not as the homosexual activist that he was! The movie writers denounce one scandal while continuing to engage in the cover-up of another - the homosexual abuse of minors!! Just as the Catholic Church tries to cover up any truth about its priests, liberals try to cover up any truth about how abusive its homosexuals are.

Pathetic.

As we can see, any information that presents the truth about how perverted homosexuals involved in the scandal are and were was purposely scrapped.

On the other hand, it's very good that the movie won the main Oscar, since this gives it visibility, and that means it gives worldwide visibility to the subject. The importance of this film is that it centers its attention on the societal cover-up, while also touching upon the gravity of the damage done to the victims.

And the ending with the bit about the fact that Cardinal Law is now living in high style in the Vatican was well done. Like Nazis who escaped to Argentina after the war and lived a comfortable life until their deaths.

See on Shanley: https://alessandrareflections.wordpress.com/2005/02/07/homo-defrocked-priest-shanley-nailed/
Pretty crazy what lengths powerful organizations will go to to appear pure. Makes you wonder about fraud everywhere around you.
It is a very good movie! I love it. I give it five stars.
Fascinating script and executed perfectly. The cast are all spot on. Stanley Tucci is an absolute star on this.
Fantastic (and scary) movie.
A well done biopic akin to the film, 'All The Presidents Men' about the dozens of Catholic Church molestation cases throughout Boston over several decades.
Awesome movie. A must see.
Excellent film, well worth watching.
Great Cast. Great story. Just not something I'd watch again.
A really great, slow-burn investigative piece that pays fealty to classics of the genre like All the President's Men. It's been a while since I've seen a picture with this much grit, restraint and respect for the story, and that makes the last half-hour feel transcendent, even if it's also strikingly bittersweet. Michael Keaton is excellent in another Best Picture winner, his second in as many years, and Mark Ruffalo shows tremendous passion and fire in a major ensemble effort. There's nothing flashy or indulgent about Spotlight, a rarity nowadays, and that vacancy leaves room for us to observe and appreciate the difficult, compounded, thankless efforts of these masters of their profession. It's also, often, a stark reminder that 2001 (where the movie is set) wasn't just yesterday. The world has changed fundamentally over the past fifteen years, and it's staggering how often this comes across, effectively, as a period piece. Essential viewing for a wide variety of reasons.
¡Excelentes actuaciones de todos! Buen film al exponer la dura realidad detrás de la institución católica y todas sus manzanas podridas.
Excellent! Will go in my blu ray collection.
masterpiece .. just masterpiece ... well deserved oscar
I thought The Big Short was a stronger contender in various respects, but this one is certainly no slouch.  More of a 4.25 star film for me.
Spotlight migth not be a fun movie, nor artistic by any means but is strong and important to this times. A must see.
The most disappointing aspect of Spotlight is that it chooses to focus most of its energies on delving into the investigative process than it does illuminating the stories of the victims. There is an unsatisfying gap where we are told of the situation, but not brought in. That said, being a Bostonian for the past 4 years, I have to say that in comparison to the "Black Mass"-es of the world, Spotlight does a nice job of dropping authentic references (BPL!) and showing much attention to detail.
One of the great journalism films. Excellent acting all around (especially by Keaton) and a crisp script.  "Spotlight" is well worth seeing.
The film intelligently depicts the procedures of investigative journalism with impressively restrained direction evoking a "documented" realism, but the story and characters brilliantly unfold on screen like a suspenseful thriller. The performances from Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams stand out the most, with great conviction and passion fully embodying their emotions. Finally, I have to say that John Slattery's blunt, witty humor makes just about everything better.
I (barely) knew nothing about the story and by god I was shocked. I knew the catholic church was hiding something, but at this massive scale? The acting in this movie is some of the best you will ever see. Mark Ruffalo, Rachel McAdams, Michael Keaton are all wonderful to watch on screen. Everyone else is great too. This is something that will stand the test of time.
Very good acting, interesting, thought provoking
Wow. I see why it won the academy award. The content of this film is so massive, so heavy. This is a story that has waited too long to be told properly. The cast was great. The fluidity of it all was great. The ending was superb. And the part after the movie, before the clips rolled was even more powerful.
Awesome Movie About The Boston Catholic Scandals...
It was easy to see why this movie was nominated for best picture. It is rare that a movie tells a relevant story and it keeps the viewer in the story. Very well done!
Very informative and well written. A must see.
In the most important film of the year, and of recent years, "Spotlight" tells the story of the Boston newspaper crew that brings the world to its knees when they reveal what the Catholic Church has been covering up for years about the molestation of little boys by priests.

The film is first and foremost one that should be watched by all, it's important, and will tell everyone who doesn't already know how this whole thing went down in 2001, what it was like to uncover such a travesty of disgusting acts and how the Catholic Church would do about anything to keep it a secret and how they did. It's emotional, empowering, engrossing, informative, and easily should have (and did) win best picture of the year at the Oscars.

The writing is darn near perfect, it's a drama so it has to keep you sucked in the whole time, especially with no action or anything but dialogue throughout. But, it does just that, it runs smoothly, and has a great pace to it. It will most definitely grab your attention and hold on tight to tell you this unreal story. It also does this with the help of a story that most want to hear and know about.

The acting is by far the best part of the film though when it comes to breaking it down technically. With a cast that is indeed star studded; Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, Rachel McAdams, Liev Schrieber, and Stanley Tucci to name a few, it should be great. It's definitely led by the performances of Ruffalo and Keaton, who shine without a doubt showing raw emotion and determination to get this story to the public. You can see how much they care and feel about the matter. They also grab your emotions and make you feel what they feel, and make you care about this and bringing it to justice so to speak. McAdams is one I'm kind of disappointed in. She does well, don't get me wrong here. But I don't think she deserved an Oscar nom for her performance. One that I think was underrated and under appreciated though is Stanley Tucci, who holds his own and displays greatly that even in a small role with little onscreen time that he can shine with the brightest of stars. Everyone else definitely does a good job, I just think Ruffalo, Keaton, and Tucci deserve the most praise.

Overall it is a great film, it has a sense of importance that Hollywood lacks of now days. It tells a story that needs to be heard and does it smartly with the writing, and shows it greatly with the acting. All in all, it's a must see, and it is easily to see how "Spotlight" took home best motion picture at The Academy Awards this year. 4/5 JD
Not sure why it won best picture, aside from the nature of its story.

Don't get me wrong, it's a great movie. It's thematically heavy and emotionally moving. It also offers an interesting examination into corruption, power, and politics. But there was nothing in the execution that blew me away (though maybe some of the more poignant moments may have been removed because I watched the film edited).
A well deserved winner for the movie of the year that has perhaps one of the best casts of the year & focuses simply on pure simple storytelling of one of the biggest investigative reporting feat of recent times. The precision in the script is remarkable that keeps you engaged all through even for a technical story that can classify as boring to mainstream cinema lovers.. but not this one!
Sinceramente, la verdad los Oscar no convencen del todo; los temas y tramas a tratar se hacen de una manera un tanto superficial, los personajes carecen de un buen nivel de carisma pero al menos no en las actuaciones. Hay varios temas de la vida real que se plantearon adecuadamente pero se manejaron un tanto a medias. En lo general NO es mala cinta, pero si la veo dudosa de ser la Mejor peli del 2015
This is one of those rare films that given the subject matter, you don't want to see, but have to see it just because of how important and shocking it is. I cant fault this film in anything. The ensemble cast is all on top form. It was uncomfortable to watch in a few of the scenes recounting the abuse. Its a slow burner of a story, much like Erin Brockovich, but without any of the focus moving onto the investigators personal lives, it all boils down to uncovering the truth and its sickening to know that there are people who know about this and cover it up. Its very gripping. It deserved to win Best Film at this years Oscars. Just before the end credits there is a reveal of just how many cases have been uncovered on a global scale, it really makes you sick just to know how common this is.
Best movie ever! It tells the truth about priest which has been covered up for years.
Great Movie, deserves the title of " Best Movie of 2015"
Superb drama about a team of reporters investigating child abuse in the Roman Catholic church. Avoids pinning the blame on religion and instead highlights the failings of all institutions -including the press- to see what was happening in their community.
Fantastic, authenic investigation movie!
Amazing movie, sad commentary on the realities and hidden secrets/sins of the Catholic Church.
Kind of feel this was toned down for the audience or perhaps, given the documentaries and operation Yew Tree in recent years since this was the spark that lit the fuse.
A quietly captivating film that tracks impeccable journalists who slowly begin to realise the extent of human depravity and begin to hear the once-silent sins of a formidable institution screaming from within. Top-notch acting and direction makes this a tense yet understated example of film excellence.
Awesome movie, but this movie did not feel like a movie of the year.  The topic at hand was very moving, but it didn't move me to feel like I was watching a movie of the year.  It was good enough to be nominated, but I'm still sticking to Martian as movie of the year.  Having said that, I've only seen The Martin, The Revenant, The Big Short, & now this movie.  Not an easy topic to talk about, but still worth watching.  Easy movie to recommend.
Unbelievable that they could make a movie this good about an issue this tricky.
Great follow through on one of the largest scandals in the world. Movie went by quick, great acting and Boston is an amazing city!
Top notch performances, very worthy of its Oscar nomination.
This year's Best Picture Oscar winner is an excellent film and real eye-opener. Of course, I knew a lot about the priest scandals within the Catholic Church, but I had no idea how extensive it was in one city! The Boston Globe investigation not only uncovers the abuses themselves, but the cover-ups that go way up the church hierarchy. Though the reporters work is shown as being heroic, the movie doesn't let the media off the hook, either. Fine performances all around, with Mark Ruffalo the standout. I docked this a half star because I would've liked to have seen more about the immediate fallout once the articles went public, especially now that it's a world-wide scandal. A minor complaint, really. There are so few really good films about the world of journalism. This is definitely one of them - see it!
Good movie. Weirdly plain looking, but really intense once things start unraveling. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.
Potent, powerful, and as timely as ever, Spotlight is a mesmerizing peer into a particularly disturbing true-life story, and its well-assembled cast make it effortlessly watchable all the way through
Very powerful, classic and emotional..
Extremely well cast & acted flick, exposing the truth that needed to be told.
Wow, just wow. No wonder it won an Oscar!
The drama in this film is unbelievable. The acting is top class. Truly remarkable what they went through.
Catholic Church cover-up exposed. Very powerful film. I feel for the many victims.
I thought this was a riveting, well acted and important story about confronting our societal failures. We damn those who are victimized by claiming they're "too close to the story" to be rational and forget to look at -ourselves- for perhaps being too entrenched in condoning and even perpetrating exactly what these victims are trying to tell us needs to stop.   I thought Spotlight also did a great job of not indulging in any graphic scenes of abuse or grief; there was no fetishizing or voyeurism and there did not need to be. You feel the horror of their realizations in real time from second hand or first hand anecdotes, you naturally grow to empathize with the characters who are introduced as 'difficult' or 'crazy.' 
One thing I wasn't crazy about was the cinematography in this film, though on the other hand the 'news footage' style did at least keep the film grounded; the pseudo-documentary style lent it some weight.
An Oscars worthy masterpiece! "Spotlight" tells the story of a group of journalists uncovering the involvement of Roman Catholic priests in child sexual abuse scandals in Boston area.
The pressure in the film is real, the victims, the lawyers, the people, your friends, your colleagues and how the society trivialized this issue.
"Spotlight" journalists, struggling hard against all odds, to uphold the justice of human rights. Well done to all the crews involved in the filming!
Powerfully compelling and terrifically acted, Spotlight earns its Best Picture honor with a fact-based account of a sensitive narrative and a well-rounded cast delivering great performances---especially by Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton and Rachel McAdams.
Amazing story. Acting was riveting. You will use all your feelings.
5 stars. powerful and ALL the actors are superb. Saw it in Adelaide, Australia and for the first time I can remember in years the audience actually applauded afterwards. Compared to some of the trite shite Best Picture winners in the past decade this is a worthy winner.
Pretty whatever movie with an important message. 
Mark Ruffalo stands out. 
Cinematography was bad. 
6/10
Beautifully crafted film that brings to light the hard work that the journalists at The Boston Globe put in to this very important case.
Terrific performances, settle direction and a wonderful film indeed!
This movie is a must see for anyone that appreciates the art of fact based filmmaking. The movie wasn't flashy in any way, instead using a solid script and fantastic acting to deliver its important message about the corruption of the Catholic Church, and what the press can do to change things. Spotlight was fantastic.
Amazing story, worth watching. Great journalistic inquiry story that unravel the true story of abusing priest pedophile on children on Boston, that also had repercussion all over the world and the church itself. The comedians were on the top of their games. the story is clear and very focused. Not a cheerful movie, but for personal culture it should be watched.
Near perfect movie with great emotional depth.
Well acted, interesting, but not my idea of a memorable best picture.
brilliant story, its controversiality what brought it the Oscar.
Excellent acting is the best part of a sporadically-paced film. The difficult subject matter was effectively conveyed, sometimes nauseatingly so. Strangely, despite, I felt it could be longer. Perhaps that was the anticlimactic ending.
A very insightful film. Truly show the struggle, pain and vicious cycle of abuse of the church. Had a great cast and the script was phenomenal. Keeps you entertained to the end.
Intense story, Really did deserve that Oscar win ,
Yes, this is a worthy story that everyone
should be aware of and not allow to be
ignored, but it's also a terrific piece of
low key cinema. Those guilty of the
Church cover up are viewed just as
harshly as the perpetrators themselves,
if not more so. It lost half a star for the
slightly insistent and continual piano
music from end to end, but apart from
that a great old-fashioned choice for
best picture. Notable for continuing the
Michael Keaton renaissance..
This is a solid film, but I'm pretty sure the only reason it snagged Best Picture is its serious, based-on-a-true-story subject matter. Besides a couple stand-out scenes, not much here is as memorable or affecting as it should be. The performances from the all-star cast are mostly functional, rather than stellar. The exception is Rachel McAdams, who seems more fully immersed in her character than her castmates do in theirs. Strangely, Mark Ruffalo is actually pretty bad in this.
After it's surprising Oscar win for Best Picture, I checked out "Spotlight". Wow, just wow. An intensely powerful drama that masterfully explores a very delicate subject. If you haven't seen it yet, I strong recommend it.
E não é que Spotlight realmente é esse filmão todo que andam falando por aí? De início nem estava nos meus planos vê-lo já que eu e temas como abuso infantil ou qualquer tipo de assédio sexual não me damos muito bem, mas quando o torrent do filme é literalmente jogado em suas mãos - ou melhor, inbox - é difícil recusar. Dirigido por Tom McCarthy, Spotlight narra a investigação de um jornal local local de Boston sobre casos de pedofilia envolvendo a Igreja Católica e seus cardeais/bispos/padres/o resto. Desde o começo do filme somos tragados por esse ambiente jornalístico e de certa forma nostálgico, já que o tempo em questão é o ano de 2001. Ok, tinha 2 anos em 2001 e nostálgico não é a palavra certa, mas a questão é que eu não encontrei palavra melhor pra definir o começo do século sem ser Playstation 2 e Sandy&Junior. Voltando, o desenvolvimento do filme é construído de forma lenta, de maneira que possamos digerir toda a burocracia e politicagem envolvidas e se comover ainda mais com a causa aderida. É revoltante o modo que o sistema age acobertando os traumas de suas próprias crianças para a proteção de uma instituição com tantos podres como a Igreja Católica. Em todo momento o diretor joga na nossa cara que tudo isso pode estar acontecendo agora mesmo em sua cidadezinha de interior e você não faz a mínima ideia. Spotlight cumpre muito bem o seu papel como filme jornalístico e é um daqueles longas que te fazem querer ficar pra acompanhar a resolução do caso, mesmo que demore um pouco para a lenha queimar. Mereceu o Oscar? Sobre isso, como diria uma grande filosofa contemporânea, não sou capaz de opinar.
I wanted to open this review with some sort of flashy pun about how good journalism shines a light on the underserved or poorly treated in our society, and because this film is called Spotlight, it does a particularly good job at that. I couldn't find the right quote, and I see quite a few other reviews used the "shines a light" verbiage in describing this story of the Boston Globe investigative reporters who uncovered widespread sexual abuse in the Catholic Church, as well as a massive cover-up operation.

I also think the journalists who inspired this story would be unimpressed by the obvious nature of the pun. After all, one of the few edits Marty Baron, the editor of the Globe at the time, had for his Spotlight reporters was an adjective in their copy - a general no-no for news writers. A no-frills editor and a no-frills guy, Marty was, if I ever saw one, and he's played to perfection by Liev Schrieber in one of the film's standout roles. But like the Spotlight team itself, there's no weak link in the Spotlight cast or the film as a whole. It's a sensational piece of straightforward, dramatic filmmaking that uses matter-of-factness as a weapon against its audience. You don't expect the film to pack as much of a punch as it does because the outcome is never in doubt, and director Thomas McCarthy's approach is decidedly unfussy from the start. But Spotlight shook me up and left an indelible mark. It's incredible.

The film takes place mostly in 2001, immediately after Baron assumed the top editor role at the Globe. The Spotlight team consists of four journalists - Mike Rezendes (Mark Ruffalo), Sacha Pfeiffer (Rachel McAdams), Matt Carroll (Brian d'Arcy James), and their leader, Walter "Robby" Robinson (Michael Keaton). As Robinson explains to Baron, the Spotlight team investigates a specific subject for as much as a year before putting pen to paper on a story. He thinks they should focus on the Catholic Church, specifically a priest who was accused of sexually assaulting minors at as many as six different Boston parishes over 30 years. They take the assignment with varying degrees of enthusiasm.

And just like All the President's Men - which is such an obvious point of comparison for Spotlight, but a fitting one for its subject matter and quality - one piece of information proves to be the tip of the iceberg for something much greater and more horrible than anyone involved could imagine. The facts and figures are out there, but I'll leave them out of this critique of the film and let you decide how much you want to know going in. If you don't know much about the crimes, or your memory of the early aughts is fuzzy, the staggering number of victims will broadside you.

As far as the filmmaking goes, Spotlight is perhaps the ultimate case (at least in 2015) of the whole being greater than the sum of its parts. Everything in McCarthy's movie works - from the ensemble and the writing to the editing and the cinematography - but as good as individual performances and craft achievements are, it's still hard to account for how or why this movie is so damn good.

Let's start with the cast, and if there's any 2015 movie that screams out "SAG Ensemble Award, please!" more loudly than this movie, I've yet to see it. Mark Ruffalo is best-in-show for my money. He burrows into the character of Rezendes with a ferocity and precision that you don't see in movies like this. His physical and verbal tics are so strange, and yet, by the end of the film, they say so much about the character. He's arguably the most hard-nosed of the team, and he's definitely the least connected to Boston's deep Catholic roots (outside of the Jewish outsider Baron). When his superiors tell him it's not yet time to run the story, he personalizes it. Journalism is defeating him - slowly, but it is - and he's not ready to let these crooks of the hook. He explodes in the film's standout dramatic scene and reminds everyone why their city needs them.

Then, there's Keaton - so good in Birdman last year that he'll almost certainly take home a make-up trophy this year (even though I think he's better here). He's not in-your-face the way Riggan Thomson was (or the way Mike Rezendes is), but his Robby is the film's soul. He describes himself as Spotlight's "player-coach," though I'd argue he's more a "player-coach-GM." He's created a team that's effective at every position. His journalism gets done with a personal touch. Rezendes is the bulldog. And Sasha Pfeiffer and Matt Carroll knock on doors knowing they'll get turned away 99 times out of 100. He's a father figure for all of them, but also a beacon of friendship within the community, and his ability to balance friendship with his professional responsibilities is one of Spotlight's primary sources of conflict. The character manages both excellently, and both Keaton and the film's screenwriters - McCarthy and Josh Singer - deserve credit for conveying that to the audience without shoving his moral dilemmas down our throats mawkishly.

The film never goes down that road; McCarthy has more faith in his audience than that. During a scene of heightened drama, the only flourish might be a slow pan-out by the camera or some jump cuts between his characters conducting interviews in different places. What Spotlight proves, though, is that flashing editing doesn't create suspense, nor does yelling and shouting necessarily create drama. Great writing and acting and a director who's confident in those two things can combine to make a perfect or nearly perfect film.

I'm not ready to call Spotlight perfect yet. Nor will I give it that scarlet "M" for masterpiece that just asks for people to tear it down, especially during the nasty Oscar season we're entering. No, all I'll say now is that it's among my favorite films of 2015. It's virtually assured a top five spot on my best-of list this year, and it's a film I'll get so much enjoyment out of watching again and sharing with others. It grips you and moves you. It's about why I love journalism, and it is why I love movies.

http://www.johnlikesmovies.com/spotlight-review/
Well made movie. Tells the story of determined journalism without trashing the subject matter.
Good cast...but a very slow docu-drama. over rated. don't buy the oscar hype.
An absolute thrilling and gripping tale of stern realism !!!
Spotlight is a masterpiece in any aspect of the movie. Brilliant assemble cast delivering great performances all across the board and story that should have been so heavy to watch and hard to swallow for most of the movie goers made so well and modest that just locks you onto the screen and you don't let go until the credits roll.
Spotlight is definitely a good movie, but it is still far from a great one. The performances are excellent, the editing and directing are really good and the second half of the film is great with some fantastic lines, superb emotional moments and more involving dialogue, but the first half is not that great as it was too typical, sometimes even boring plus the character development is very weak.
Good to know interesting facts but a very slow movie.
A simple film about a not so simple subject matter, Spotlight is truly an ensemble piece with terrific performances, beautiful writing, directing, and pitch perfect editing that audiences will be enthralled with from the opening scene to the end credits.
What an excellent piece of cinema. I vaguely new of the situation beforehand, but wow. Powerful, powerful film. Jarring from start to finish, "Spotlight" shocked and angered me simultaneously. Performances were subtle yet extremely powerful. I did not see actors in this movie. That's how good they were. 8/8 gr8 m8
oscar de melhor roteiro: merecido
oscar de melhor filme: ?
One of the bravest films I have ever seen.
Yawn. How did this win?
Very good film that really drove home the horror of the moment as well the intensity of the reporting of the time period. Totally understandable that this got the Oscar.
Simply brilliant. Wonderful acting telling an intricate tale, and despite the sensitive subject matter, its dealt with in a dignified but straight-forward manner. Deserving of every accolade and the very bright spotlight laid on. 
Resonant Line: "Walter 'Robby' Robinson: We got two stories here: a story about degenerate clergy, and a story about a bunch of lawyers turning child abuse into a cottage industry. Which story do you want us to write? Because we're writing one of them."
This now best picture winner is not a run of the mill film. It's subject is hard to believe and unlike others before focusing on the priests and what they've done, this film concentrates on how the story was found and told. Interesting fact based film with a superb cast.
"Spotlight" directed by Todd McCarthy is a intriguing tale of people who did what was right even if they faced adversity. It is well acted and while mostly just being dialogue manages to somehow be entertaining
Unbelievable but I know it's true.  Very good movie!
Spotlight gracefully handles the lurid details of its fact-based story while resisting the temptation to lionize its heroes, resulting in a drama that honors the audience as well as its real-life subjects. Spotlight is a rare movie about the profession - and just enough about people in it - that simply feels right, speaking from the inside. McCarthy and his brilliant cast make hard work and truth-telling inspiring. One of the reasons that Spotlight is so deeply, absurdly satisfying to this newspaper writer - is that Tom McCarthy's movie doesn't turn its journalists into heroes. It just lets them do their jobs, as tedious and critical as those are, with a realism that grips an audience almost in spite of itself. Spotlight one of the best movies about journalism ever made, at once gripping and accurate. It doesn't just get the big things right, such as how news stories evolve, but the small things, such as what offices look like and how staff tends to react to a new boss. Near-breathless high-tension performances from a fully immersed ensemble, each member conveying an unflagging determination to right a terrible wrong, to uncover crime where it should never be. Spotlight doesn't call attention to itself. Its screenplay is self-effacing, its accomplished direction is intentionally low key, and it encourages its fistful of top actors to blend into an eloquent ensemble.

VERDICT: "High-Quality Stuff" - [Positive Reaction] This is a rating to a movie I view as very entertaining and well made, and definitely worth paying the full price at a theatre to see or own on DVD. It is not perfect, but it is definitely excellent. (Films that are rated 3.5 or 4 stars)
Den Oscar als bester Film hat dieser Streifen absolut verdient!!!
Best picture of 2015! This film shows more than courage or bravery. It tells the whole story, in the right way.
As was to be expected, a great story the shocking extent of which I wasn't aware before. on top of that, an intense display of how investigative journalism works including all the internal disputes and external struggles. when it comes to the cast, it is hard to pick anyone out in particular - it's an amazing ensemble.
It was a deeply amazing movie. Smart, intelligent, fast, thrilling, shocking and moving. Actor Tom McCarthy (Meet the Parents) wrote and directed this movie and he did the excellent work. Best performer was Mark Ruffalo. He did powerful and great performance. No wonder he got Oscar nomination. Rachel McAdams did nice performance and she got Oscar nomination too. But Michael Keaton was really really great and fantastic! He needed to get Oscar nomination too! Climax was thrilling and wonderful. I got goosebumps! Based on actual event. So many Chatholic Church Priests molested so many children. They used God's name and they did really terrible things... I was thinking, I can't trust people. I can trust only God. This is the crazy worold. Anyway everybody needs to see this movie. I'm so glad it won the Oscar for Best Picture!
A simply staggering achievement in filmmaking that is both more important than any movie made this year, and worth the weight of them all combined.  The impact of "Spotlight" is unforgettable.
Spotlight kept my attention through the entire movie. Fast pace!
Very good movie. I can understand why it won the Academy award for best picture. The pacing is great, the topic fascinating and the drama intense in some scenes. But I think what truly makes this movie are the actors and the characters they play. I really enjoyed Mark Ruffalo's performance over all the others.
Fantastic movie, certainly shed light on something that needed to be investigated.
compelling fasting moving,  and exciting  as the truth emerges
A heart wrenching drama about the sexual abuse, by the Catholic Church, on thousands of little boys and girls. Kept in the dark for so long this movie did an amazing job of telling the uncomfortable and important story while still keeping it non-graphic. This is definitely a movie everyone should watch.
Well acted. Story had to be told.
It tells an important story, it's well acted by a great ensemble cast, and does not resort to cheap thrills or melodrama. on the other hand, while there is nothing really at fault with SPOTLIGHT, it is not really that exciting either. it's a bit like watching titanic, you already know what's happening in the end, and in this case it really takes out most of the tension.
An interesting movie on an interesting topic.
Interesting this movie won top Oscar seeing as how Hollywood is pedophile capital of the universe.  Fall out should be interesting.
McCarthy and Singer turned what could have been a manipulative story into a fine exposition that does not leave the audience behind with the aid of the film's dedicated cast.
solid performance, intriguing, and round up with details
Despite having an interesting story to tell and being awarded by the Academy, I think this film is not very compelling. It´s the kind of film with an atractive topic, an outstanding cast but full of routinary scenes, endless dialogues and a predictable conclussion.
A fantastic and important film. Well deserved Best Picture, and Mark Ruffalo got robbed.
If it takes a village to raise a child, it takes a village to abuse one.
Great performances and powerful direction.
First watching this night after Oscars, and not understanding the win. This is so full of cliches, I'm bored to tears. The overacting by Ruffalo doesn't help.
Extremely well written,  acted, and directed.  Exceptionally well done considering the subject matter, although investigative journalism is hardly this *exciting.*  Flew under my radar, but I'm glad I took the time to watch it.
The producers and writers went out of their way to make sure the priests were portrayed as molesters of both boys and girls and not homosexual. The facts are that most of the victims were boys, some of the priests were molested as boys and these priests' sexual orientation were homosexual. Too bad this movie tried so hard to hide these facts.
After winning the Oscar for best film last night I thought I should check this out. Based on a series of tragedies in Boston and the Catholic Church. It is at times an interesting film (in a sad way)  but there never feels like there is  much tension to make the film engrossing enough. Some decent acting from Rachel McAdams made her scenes seemed to be the most watchable. Mark Ruffalo was just annoying. Overall not great and I was surprised it won the Oscar for best film. The Revenant, The Martian and Bridge of Spies were all superior films to this.
Good movie and well made but kind of boring for my tastes.
Winner of 2 Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR! Spotlight was exceptional! Both Ruffalo and McAdams were phenomenal! This movie was powerful, emotional and unbelievable! I know this would be very difficult to watch for people who are religious but I implore all of you too see this movie, its worth seeing once in your life, its important to know that you, as a human being, have choices and can make a stand and help others if people are in need.
Excellent. Now I know why it won the Oscars.
Spotlight (2015) ??? 1/2
Thought-provoking, fact-based account was intended as biographical drama, but actually makes for splendid thriller, as important news reporters uncover irony about the Catholic Church. Very entertaining, good acting by all, particularity by Mark Ruffalo and Rachel McAdams. This Won the Oscar for Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay.
solid movie,  great acting and a story that needed to told. pretty shocking subject matter based on true events.
Calling Spotlight an enjoyable film would be wrong due to its heavy
subject matter, but Thomas McCarthy's film is from the get-go an
engaging and finely produced piece of filmmaking that aptly shines a
light on a pivotal moment in journalistic history that changed the
world's views of Catholicism for ever.

Based on a true story, Spotlight sees McCarthy somehow wash himself
clean of the stench that was The Cobbler and dust off any fears we
may've therefore harboured for him as a filmmaker to deliver his most
ambitious and loaded film to date, that also sees him for the first
time handle such a powerful story and pedigree cast.

Famous for intimate character studies such as The Station Agent and The
Visitor, McCarthy forgoes his tendency to delve into characters over
scenarios to focus his story directly into the Boston Globe newspaper's
investigation into abuse cover up in the Catholic Church system. Doing
so allows McCarthy to let the story take hold on the viewer and the
enormity of the situation wash over us as we realise just what was
being uncovered by these reporters, and without ever playing up
situations for easy emotional pay offs, McCarthy delivers hits without
an air of melodrama or cinematic tricks, no doubt aware that the
material speaks for itself.

Saying that the story is the star player here would however take away
from a finely tuned ensemble that's led by another great Michael Keaton
performance and both a reminder of Mark Ruffalo's talents and Rachel
McAdam's ability when given the right substances to work with, although
her Oscar nomination feels somewhat strange. Each actor brings a subtle
nuance to their incarnations and they act as another telling example of
McCarthy's (an actor himself) ability to not only direct and write, but
draw out excellent performances from his cast's.

Spotlight is an astutely crafted investigation procedural that never
strays to far from what you'd expect from such a tale but with a
winning script and a likable cast of performers it's a high quality
production that could've benefited ever so slightly from a larger focus
towards the cinematic.

In light of this however, Spotlight is a quietly powerful and sometimes
devastating look at a topic that continues to be played out daily in
far too many cities around the world.

4 foreboding church buildings out of 5

www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com
Spotlight lets strong acting performances and subtle, sharp dialogue lay the pieces of a very twisted puzzle in front of you.
I watched this movie over the weekend and I thought it was so good.  You have to watch it a couple of times to get it all but highly recommend
Unbelievably well made in every way.
Inteligent and good movie, portrait us what investigative reporting is all about. Keep me interested through out all the movie.
Great news for Spotlight, even though the competition was rather weak for Best Picture. Maybe the Pope will watch the film now????
great cast and great movie!
It shouldn't be so rare to find a film with a harmonious ensemble, well written, paced and edited, with a serious and worthwhile story that manages not to grim or gruelling. Sadly it is. But I enjoyed Spotlight all the more for it.
Two words "left field" bravo Tom McCarthy for directing a fantastic film. In addition this is the second film in a row Michael Keaton has stated in which has won best picture which in my opinion is better than winning in the actual category of best actor(not to take away from Leo's Oscar winning performance). This makes Keaton the most valuable actor in Hollywood because for the second year in a row a film he stared in has been "spotlighted" (lol) as the best picture.
Though this review comes a day late and a dollar short of Spotlight's impressive win at the Oscar's for picture of the year, better late than never perfectly describes the journey of this incredible story over a near decade's worth of waiting.

For me, Spotlight was not the film of the year.  It does, however, have the best ensemble bar none.  Keaton, Slattery, Ruffalo, McAdams, Schreiber, James and Tucci rise to the occasion of the source material to not only delivery a tension-based thriller, but a successful, fact-driven adventure that ultimately concludes with a satisfying fist pump so to speak.  While Ruffalo may have been given the nod for best lead actor in the film, it's tough to see him take that home with such a well-rounded cast occupying the same amount of screen time as everyone else.  This wasn't just a Dustin Hoffman/Robert Redford kind of duo.  It was a team effort all the way, and you get a great sense of just how important one journalist was to the other's work.

The material is tough.  The movie throws all the punches it needs to in order to make the audience understand just how heinous these acts were for the the system.  It never glorifies the villain here.  We only briefly get to meet the Cardinal and his disciples, and instead we focus on the journalists who put in the time and hard work necessary to unearth these stories. 

However, the best point to note for director Tom McCarthy is he never idolizes or glorifies any of our heroes.  It's right back to work at the end for these characters who neither need the adulation or seek it.

So while Spotlight should be praised for its delicate handling of the source material, some might actually say it doesn't go far enough.   The text at the end of the movie summarizing everything we watched over the course of two hours doesn't hit as hard as seeing the actors portray it.  But then again, maybe their job was hypothetically completed once the world saw the story on that fateful morning.
Deeply engaging and emotional exploration of a very sensitive, real life issue of sexual abuse and corruption from the very people we turn to for protection, church and state. Rich performances from Mark Ruffalo whose passion as an investigative reporter fires through the challenges to tell the sordid story. I had goose bumps at many points of this film and was emotionally connected to the storyline. Michael Keaton also delivers a strong performance. Amazing film. BEST PICTURE WINNER well deserved.
Not unwatchable, but--and this sinks in as you leave the theater--just awful. Myriads of "characters" all trying to add intrigue and drama to proceedings that have no drama, even though the underlying story is dramatic. People talking in offices. Reporters running through hallways. They could have tried to make it as compelling as JFK. There's a scene in JKF with people sitting at a restaurant table with eerie music and eerie lighting and a sense of foreboding. None of that here, probably on purpose. Very low-key. They were trying to be subtle. Maybe this got the Oscar because the voters wanted to deflect attention from the other issue confronting the Academy this year..
More interesting than entertaining, was  engaged throughout but never enthralled.
A shining example of the difference investigative journalism can make in this world. Something that seems to be lacking in today's age of Internet blog stories, unverified news articles and poorly edited columns.
Wow.  A damn good movie.  It doesn't get too invested in the characters.  It's a story of uncovering information.  And while its no mystery, today, what they uncovered within the Catholic church--it's fascinating to watch them fight past the cover-ups and the bureaucracy.  I can see why it won Best Picture.  It's a movie that everyone should see.
To me it was average.  I didn't particularly get into any of the characters.  The plot was good and involving.
It lacks a true cinematic touch. Spotlight almost feels like a documentary at times. It's uncompelling and not a movie anybody really needs to see. (First and only viewing - 3/23/2016)
Well timed and very well made.

The true story of how, in 2001, reporters at the Boston Globe investigated accusations of Catholic priests in Boston molesting children.  Following on from leads, interviews with victims, existing court cases and extensive research they reveal decades of abuse.  Moreover, they discover that the issue was far wider spread than they at first believed, that senior members of the diocese were aware of the issue and that the church systemically covered up the crimes.

A well made movie: interesting and intriguing.  It had the potential to degenerate into a dull, dry paint-by-numbers docudrama but writer-director Tom McCarthy gives the characters depth, builds the intrigue like a spy thriller and makes a very realistic-feeling movie about investigative journalism.

The director is aided by some great, understated performances from his cast.  Michael Keaton is the pick of the bunch but Mark Ruffalo, Liev Schreiber, Rachel McAdams, John Slattery, Brian dArcy James and Stanley Tucci put in solid performances too.

Another factor the movie has in its favour is timing: (alleged) abuse of children by priests of the Catholic church is a highly charged, highly publicized, internationally widespread, current issue.  While I do not think Spotlight was the best film of 2015 (for me, that honour goes to The Big Short), Spotlight isn't far behind the best in terms of pure cinematic quality plus it taps into a highly topical issue.  

I thus think it is the contemporary nature of its subject matter that saw it edge out the competition for the Best Picture Oscar in 2016, and I don't see a problem in that (despite my preference for The Big Short).  One of the purposes of art is to capture the look, feel and issues of the times and preserve them for posterity.  Spotlight fulfils this function very well.
This movie was riveting from the start. I was very disappointed that Michael  Ruffalo  didn't win best supporting actor. When I think of this movie I see his face showing his disbelief and discussed of what was happening and being ignored by everyone.
I love this movie. The story is engaging, all actors are great, well written, well presented, basically you get out of the theater feeling very well informed about the case (which was a true story).
A story that needed to be told.  Must see.  Enraged at how the Catholic Church got away with these.  God bless the victims of this abuse.
Definitely a story worth telling. The Catholic Church should be ashamed of what they're hiding. Good cast, good acting, slow at times however, a very somber film based on true events.
I watched it two times in a row to make sure I didn't miss anything
Solid 70's style newsroom piece that shows you can keep an audience interested for two hours with just the basics
Great movie, great cast, great acting, really good!
Spotlight tells the terrifying true story about a scandal in the Catholic Church from 2001. With an immensely talented performance from Mark Ruffalo, Michael Keaton, and the supporting cast, the film becomes immersive and intense without any violence or effects. With the film taking place in mostly closed spaces, the story is able to be told in a claustrophobic and tense environment, which gives the characters and the audience a feeling of having their backs against the wall. The story may not be simple enough for the casual viewer, but it does provide enough intelligent storytelling and compelling character interaction for the target audience and is a worthy contender for the Oscars.
Took a disturbing subject matter and portrayed it with an honest and interesting way.
Restrained and deeply unsettling, the magnificently crafted and perfectly cast "Spotlight" handles a disturbing topic with respect and finesse, resulting in a exceptional drama that truly honors its real life subjects.
This is kind of a snore if you were paying attention to the story in 2002. Having known of priest abuses from friends as early as 1992, this movie does a good job explaining the "why" behind the systematic brainwashing and justifications of the Catholic Church and its "rationale". But the film isn't terribly emotional or interesting unless you are a reporter and get into the details of reporting. If is new to you it is probably a good movie to see.
Spotlight is an excellent film. 
The dialogue was very well done because it was really well paced and realistic. It felt like a normal person could have actually been saying the lines - and in some instances maybe they were lifted from real life - which was really powerful. It also made events more shocking (the possibly brain-addled priest that calmly confessed on his front porch to having molested young boys), more emotional (when Mark had his outburst, saying that they needed to publish the story right away so it wouldn't get taken by somebody else and messed up) and more brutally, brutally, memorable (any one of the stories of being molested or raped by victims). 
Part of the power of a film like this is that it is a true story and that realism makes it more affecting because while the drama is playing out you also know, as a viewer, that it actually happened. Spotlight's job was to not break that spell and to keep the film as true to reality as possible. Everything about the costumes and the lighting and set design felt very realistic, not to fashionable or favorable. 
Even though it is a form of film (the big cover-up, the feverish investigating, the breaking news story!) that has been done very often and with a lot of success, this still felt fresh and graceful because of its attention to detail and realism.
Superb movie - blew my moderate expectations away. A good-old-fashioned thriller with a collectively wonderful performance by the cast. Unmissable.
I had really hoped that "Spotlight" would live up to the hype of 6 Oscar nominations and its status as the front runner for Best Picture.  It did not.  Expectations aside, I found this film to be interesting and well-done but not at the same level of Oscar contenders like "The Revenant," "Room," and "The Martian."  The only nomination that I would have given to this film is to Tom McCarthy for his screenplay and its treatment of this sensitive subject matter.  The statistics are shocking and the stories of the victims are sad but the film never seems like an attack on the church.  The use of strong sexual language is limited to the first half of the movie, serving as a reference point that we can remember throughout the story without having to hear those words over and over again.  I think that the shock of hearing some of those terms is necessary to grasp the levity of the allegations but I appreciate that the script didn't continually hit us over the head with graphic sexual explanations.  The film focuses on exploring investigative journalism instead of pushing a hidden agenda, and it is impressive that a story about new research could be so riveting.  The acting is above average, especially the Boston accents, but I disagree with the Oscar nominations of Rachel McAdams and Mark Ruffalo in the Supporting categories.  In fact, I enjoyed the acting of Stanley Tucci, Michael Keaton, and John Slattery more than either of them.  Ruffalo gets to shine in one emotional scene but his acting throughout the rest of the film is average when compared by this year's performances by Steve Carrell and Idris Elba.  I'm not even sure what stood out about McAdams' performance to bring her so much acclaim.  Outside of the acting, the atmosphere and sense of authenticity adds to the realism of the story.  It was appropriate to film on location at The Boston Globe where the Spotlight team's findings transpired.  "Spotlight" is a very good movie that handles sensitive events in a creative, informative, and nearly unoffensive way.  Just prepare yourself for two hours of depression and a film that may fall below your expectations for an Oscar contender.
Great movie, tells the sad and horrifying truth about the dark side of the Catholic Church, but great acting from the cast of the movie.
So well done, spot on in it's dissection of the abuse and cover up by the Catholic church...great movie !
Spotlight builds up from a chaos amount of information, witnesses, clippings and books to an article that changed the face of the catholic church, that is the main feature of this film for me. Tom McCarthy made this a snappy movie, you feel like you're working together with these journalists. 'Spotlight' tells a horrifying story, thankfully people like this made it public.
This deplorable subject matter should have been done 30 years ago when the abuse started and seminaries began shifting to homosexual men. The Church, which I love, is still dragging feet to clean up this travesty. We are all sinners and there are sinners in all churches, but this activity was covered up, spread, and protected by people who I can only believe are at least somewhat evil and beyond mere sinners.
Spotlight focuses on real life events that were probably very brutal and unimaginable and the great odds that a newspaper team(spotlight) went to literally stop the unknown crisis. Such humanly acting by everyone. This movie is GREAT.
AH, THOSE GOOD RELIGIOUS TYPES, SO MORAL, SO DECADENT, SO DECEITFUL VS THOSE THAT DONT BUY THE GUY IN THE SKY SWILL!!!
Spotlight has gained attention recently both controversially and critically acclaimed - it is a fine example of a stand for journalism and morals, but the story seems clouded by a mood of depressing visuals and not so much suspense - it misses a few key elements.
A team of Boston Globe writers gain as much coverage as they can for a piece on the church's stance on over 90 child moleststions by priests in Boston, struggling with what they can do and who they can get to help them.
Spotlight is good but not great. It is filled with pros and cons to match up directly to that pro. It has a good story but there's little suspense to it. The performances are good but the characters themselves are a little bland. There's a gray cloud like feeling everywhere in this film that makes it less enjoyable and more realistic - maybe that's what makes it good in some senses but in others it gives the film a dull feel. The real life aspect of the film gives it its feel. Spotlight is good, but not Oscar nomination worthy.
powerful and very well made
Solid story. Nothing original though.
Certainly the most important story of the year in movies. The ensemble acting is superb, it's a great watch and not-so-arguably a must watch. It starts off slow and slowly picks up the pace, and most of the story can be hard to follow on first watch. Once you get the larger picture and figure out who's who and what's what, it's an extraordinarily well done film. Unfortunately it just takes patience to get to that point.
"How do you say no to God?".  This movie is so good, and so important.  It will remind you of "All The President's Men" with its attention to detail and its investigative narrative.  If the film doesn't make you angry it is safe to say there is something wrong with you.  Incredibly powerful at times, but the final graphic will, or should, knock you over!!
Este es buen cine,  historias valientes que denuncias las atrocidades,  hipocresÃ­as y abusos de poder de muchas instituciones que se llaman ser representantes de Dios.  Las actuaciones no son tan relevantes como otras nominadas pero el trabajo en equipo fue muy logrado.  Rufalo es el mejor.
Everything is firing on all cylinders in this movie. An untold story, with children as victims, and international scandal. The film has great acting and story. Unfortunately there just nothing remarkable about it. Maybe it deserves more credit for just telling the story like it is without exaggerating it for entertainment. The problem is though its not the kind of movie you ever want to see again, You really enjoy it at the time but there is no reason for a second visit.  There is no great scene or outstanding moment. This is as good as an unremarkable movie can get.
Since I am interested in stuff like this, I might be biased. However, it is one of the best films in 2015. Hands down.
Powerful. Intense. Riveting. Real. These are just 4 words to describe this movie that is based on a true story! I feel that this movie may be the best picture winner come Academy Award time tomorrow night! I highly recommend this very dramatic thriller!
Excelente guión, excelentes actuaciones que encarnan heroicos personajes. Spotlight nos ofrece una película sumamente reflexiva. Estructuralmente impecable, espectacular en todo sentido.Aunque cuenta con un final muy predecible y nada impactante en realidad, Spotlight esalgo que vale la pena ver.
Solid movie, impeccable acting from Keaton, Buffalo, &Tucci..great writing about an uncomfortable subject .
I did not think that a movie about pedaphile priests would be a good one.  It was not good, it was fantastic!  Very well acted, it has intense drama about the Boston Globe's investigation into the Boston Catholic Diocese hiding of pedohile priests which builds to a satisfactory ending.  It reminded me of the movie, "All the President's Men", about The Washington Post's investigation into the Watergate scandal during the 1970's.  I highly recommend this as a must see movie!
???????, ??? ????? ????????????? "???????????????" ??????? "??????". ???????????, ??? ????? ????? ????? ?? ? ?????? - ??????????. ? ???? ? ??????? ????? ????.
Although the subject matter is brutal, this movie is engulfing from the first scene to the last.  It captures the tentative, questioning nature of investigative journalism at it's best.
Perfectly presented film with great performances,  addressing the corruption of the catholic church and the need to protect and aid victims of abuse.
good journalism can birng a lot of good
Spotlight is the clear rival to the revenant in terms of taking home the best picture award this year. Followed by a superb cast and serious but disturbing plot line, Spotlight is a gripping film that will leave you thinking for a while and put into perspective what we didn't want to think about. Go watch it!
Has the pontential for an Oscar.
I liked this movie a lot more than I thought I would. Sure, I don't like when people/organizations/press defame the Church, but this was and is definitely and on going problem that needs to be shown for what it is and eradicated. This film was a great representation of something that was done to really kickstart/move forward that process.
Incredible film. The pacing, acting/cast and flow are outstanding. Id say right up the w/Revenant for best picture. A must see. 

I may still pick Revenant to win though but it's anybodies game.
Kind of speechless, actually. Incredible movie. I named my cat TESPRI (TES for short). TESPRI = PRIEST. She's black with a little white spot on her collar. But I like my cat. ; )
